---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: STUNTMAN--L_ann_Herlihy.jpg
photo_credit: Image courtesy of the artist
title: STUNTMAN
first_performed: first performed on January 01, 2020
place: Tonybee Studios
times_performed: performed 1 in 2020
contributor: LÉANN HERLIHY
collaborators: []
home: Dublin, Ireland
links:
- www.leannherlihy.com
contact: leannherlihy@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 002-003

---


Exploring the queer erotics of compressed time and impending mortality, "STUNTMAN" is a three hour live performance which cultivated as a result of an artist-in-residence with Steakhouse Live in ]performance s p a c e [, Folkestone. The final live action was realised at Tonybee Studios, ArtsAdmin in London for Steakhouse Live's live art event “Slow Sunday” in March 2020. 

***

Enclosed within four walls, I straddle a motorbike as it faces a dead-end ramp. Without turning the key in the ignition, the narrative is clear; if I drive, I crash. The flickering headlight remains the sole source of light as I thrust my clenched crotch down on the saddle. With one embodied stomp, I kickstart the engine and throttle the engine until it suddenly cuts. The space is now filled with a deeper understanding of the motorbikes masculine undertones; the sweet purr; the rattling roar; the engine cuts; the spectre remains. Fatal fumes refuse to disperse as sight becomes hazed and bodies form a homogenous whole. Toxic masculinity penetrates.

Now I’m left to ask, why did I want to emulate toxic masculinity? But then I think of the words of Del LaGrace Volcano and I feel some form of clarity, even if only fleetingly:

“The feeling of comfort and relief I experienced when being perceived as male came as quite a shock to me because I was raised to believe in the power and glory of womanhood. There are some who accuse me of betraying “womanity” by inhabiting what looks and sounds like a male body. BOLLOCKS to that I say! I’m a Gender Terrorist, a walking, talking bomb in The Boys Club. Tick Tock. Tick Tock.”

- Del LaGrace Volcano *The Drag King Book* (1999)
