---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: Balance_in_Life--Amal_Rogers.jpg
photo_credit: Amal Rogers
title: BALANCE IN LIFE
first_performed: first performed on September 09, 2020
place: My home - via Zoom
times_performed: performed three times in 2020
contributor: AMAL ROGERS
collaborators: []
home: Miami, FL
links: []
contact: amalrogers.m@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 010-011
---



I search for balance in life. Between the internal and external, you and me, mother and father, tangible and mediated, the past and the future. I try to stay vibin’ in the middle. 
I perform *Balance in Life* as a public ritual. I publicly claim the in between of my identities. I am biracial, Somali/American, an out of practice Muslim, queer but in a heterosexual marriage. I embody contradiction. 
Performed in my home through digital meeting platform Zoom. I perform this ritual in a bejeweled diraac (a Somali dress) gifted by my mother worn under my fathers black leather jacket from the 80’s. I greet the audience as if I were in a video meeting “Hi! Thanks for taking time to join us this evening. I’m going to share my screeeeen. Caneverybodyseeit?” I share my screen to show the view from another camera - revealing a lower quality image but otherwise no change. I sit at a small altar with incense, candles, a bowl of water and small talismans. I deliberately engage with each object, the final being a can of Budweiser. I switch back to the Zoom camera on an iphone on a selfie stick, changing the camera angle and image quality. I then press play on Led Zeppelin’s *Good Times Bad Times* , remove the jacket, shotgun the beer, and enthusiastically play air guitar until I lip synch the final lines of the song with my face very close to the camera. I laugh with the audience as I return from the ritual. 

