---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: APOCALYPSE_CLOWN__There_s_nothing_funny_about_2020--Amy_Ellen_Flatchestedmama_Trefsger.jpg
photo_credit: self
title: 'APOCALYPSE CLOWN: THERE''S NOTHING FUNNY ABOUT 2020'
first_performed: first performed on December 12, 0020
place: Greenwood Avenue
times_performed: performed 1 in 2020
contributor: AMY-ELLEN FLATCHESTEDMAMA TREFSGER
collaborators:
- The Seattle Santa
home: 'Seattle, WA '
links:
- www.flatchestedmama.com
contact: flatchestedmama@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 014-015

---

Apocalypse Clown was born during a multi day anxiety attack. In addition to the pandemics of racism and covid19, the West Coast was experiencing the climate emergency of wildfires and hazardous air quality from smoke. I taped my door shut from the inside, adorned myself in all of my protective gear and started taking self portraits. Self soothing (often through humor) is an underlying and recurring practice in my work.

Apocalypse Clown is equipped with a respirator mask to navigate smoke as well as covid 19 and a life preserver because the water is rising. I took the concept to an artist residency in an idyllic, rural environment complete with a dock on a lake. That is where the kismet addition of the inner tutube and the hand painted, two dimensional, fire extinguishers and rubber chickens happened. 

The inner tutube is an inner tube that hangs below the waist, held on by bright yellow rope fashioned like suspenders. It acted as an excellent social distancing buffer and completed the look with the perfect splash of friendly, visual humor. Like a child holding a stuffed animal for comfort, I fell in love with my inner tutube. It inflated the bouncy house of my heart and made me feel like I was wearing bumpers in the bowling alley of life; I can’t lose. 

An ongoing, public performance series of mine is to take annual Santa photos, usually with my most recent artworks. I use public Santas, collaborating with Santa and staff to work quickly (spending no more time than a regular visitor) to capture the image. With the pandemic still flaring and no Santa’s accepting visitors, I did not expect to create an image for the year. Then, a Santa popped up in a public space adorned as if he was in a snow globe, festively nestled inside a plastic dome for everyone’s safety. It was in walking distance from my home. I couldn’t believe Apocalypse Clown’s luck. This Santa graciously agreed to hold one of my hand painted, two dimensional rubber chickens. 

