---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: __WUWCDI_CCYang_2020BW_.jpg
photo_credit: Chin Chih Yang
title: "WATCH US: TOGETHER WE CAN DO IT."
first_performed: first performed on October 10, 2017
place: Art OMI Alumni Residency Retreat feedback
times_performed: performed 1 in 2020
contributor: CHIN CHIH YANG
collaborators: []
home: New York, NY
links:
  - www.chinchihyang.com
contact: chinchihyang@gmail.com
footnote: ""
tags: []
pages: 016-017
---

It is not easy to stop fighting, to stop our human history of 10,000+ nonstop years of war. Despite the odds, I am determined to help achieve peace on earth.

I will flesh out my vision of a peaceful interconnected world with a gigantic multi-colored heart lighting up the darkness. Although I have no experience with heights, I will challenge myself to ascend a very tall rope ladder, attached to a hovering helicopter, dirigible, tall tree, high structure, or the roof of an indoor high ceiling. To be presented in New York, the world’s most internationally diverse community, I will be steadied by more than 100 collaborators, one from each nation or tribe on earth. When I reach the apex, my fellow performers, each holding a unique brightly-colored LED strand constituting my cape, will power on a gigantic artwork illuminating the darkness. So unified in my fleshed-out version of an interconnected world, these 200 individuals will serve as role models, as a micro-level spiritual force intended to create macro-level worldwide harmony.

I do not deny the innate human need for competition; rather, I suggest that instead of fighting over ownership of things and places, we should contest each other for the benefit of all to create the most protective and sustainable housing; delicious and nutritious recipes; beautiful and functional clothing; etc. We are all invited to participate with me to see how together we can accept our innate competitive nature and use it to fuel compassion and build community.
