---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: Jantar__s_Escuras--Daniela_Serruya_Kohn.jpg
photo_credit: Luiza Palhares
title: JANTAR ÀS ESCURAS
first_performed: first performed on October 10, 2017
place: Benfeitoria, an Independent Cultural Space in the city
times_performed: performed 1 in 2020
contributor: DANIELA SERRUYA KOHN
collaborators:
- "-"
home: Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil
links:
- https://linktr.ee/acozinhanomade
contact: acozinhanomade@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: '018-019'

---



*Jantar às Escuras* What do we feed on? We gather people around the table to reframe our food culture and dedicate time to nurture the sensitive. Between one who feels and the other who makes us feel, we build bonds and get closer. We value the power of encounters and for this reason, we create experiences to feed the senses. Eating is ancestral and unanimous. Through references of hunger, satiety, pleasure, mystery and surprise, we develop actions in which the public is the main agent of these actions to celebrate diversity and sharing. Sociability in tourist spots, exotic spaces, outdoors, with long tables from many places, natural light, sunset and the scent of fresh herb arrangements. The environment is prepared to receive and welcome anyone who is willing to meet and look at their own relationship with food and itself. We invest in the development of perceptions that strengthen the collective spirit.
Chew carefully to revisit memories, to discover and invent new memories. Cross geographical boundaries, through imagination. For each dish, one course. A scene, a composition. Dinner is made in six stages, six dishes to contemplate the six flavors. The ingredients are selected to provoke different sensations, just like the sound and aromas. Everything was previously chosen to build a menu with its own poetics, based on foods produced locally, spices that heat or cool the body, textures and combinations.
To see is to dive deeply and also to give up on seeing. Food Culture is inseparable from the awareness process. We can deconstruct cultural symbols and re-create others. Knowing the food, knowing its root, preserving its root. We eat with our eyes. We eat with our whole bodies.
 

