---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: Women_s_Department--Melanie_Manos.jpg
photo_credit: Melanie Manos
title: WOMEN'S DEPARTMENT
first_performed: first performed on July 07, 2019
place: Crosstown Arts at Crosstown Concourse
times_performed: performed 1 in 2020
contributor: MELANIE MANOS
collaborators:
- " Performance includes members of the local Memphis community."
home: Detroit, MI
links:
- www.melaniemanos.com
contact: manosmel@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 022-023

---

“Women’s Department” premiered at Crosstown Arts, Memphis, TN, in a former Sears Department Store building, now the Crosstown Concourse community center and retail hub.  For this performance, department store "workers" are connected and restrained by nylons that stretch between the building’s structural columns and the women’s heads. They experience a push/pull due to the restricting nature of the nylon tethers.  The women are either on their feet or seated on rolling chairs to allow for a degree of movement.  The tethering simultaneously conveys the support system of the laborers and the gender-based limitations of the patriarchal workplace.   There is also a play on “support system” and “control top” in the use of nylon stockings for the performance which are sold at department store hosiery sections.*

Research on the history of women's work at Sears Roebuck and other twentieth century U.S. department stores reveals substantial employment opportunities offered in clerical and retail, but little to no opportunity for advancement in male dominated sectors of the business.

I conceived of and created “Women’s Department” while Artist-in-Residence at Crosstown Arts, Memphis, TN, in an historic Sears Department Store building.  I invited local women, including Crosstown Arts staff to participate in the performance and asked each to choose either the role of a clerical or retail/customer service employee.  I guided each of them in creating two scenarios for their role, which they played out repeatedly during the course of the 20 minute live performance. In my clerical role, I type on a vintage electric typewriter sourced from the building's archives, and call out "five o' clock" to conclude the work day.

“Women’s Department” will travel to other locations that historically employed women while keeping their ability to gain promotion or status limited or blocked, such as at a former paper mill in Michigan and a textile mill in Pennsylvania.  At each site the women/workers will be tethered by materials used in the production or fabrication occurring at the site.  Please contact Melanie Manos if you’d like to suggest a potential site in your region. 

*nylon stockings were invented in 1939, and pantyhose in 1959 

