---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: TELAS_35MM__8_of_13_.jpg
photo_credit: Daniela Florez
title: THE DARK SHINING THING
first_performed: first performed on January 18, 2020
place: Espacio ODEON Art Gallery
times_performed: performed seven times in 2020
contributor: CAROL MONTEALEGRE & LIMINAL ART COLLECTIVE
collaborators:
- Carol Montealegre
- Daniela Florez
- Daniela Amaya
- Nicolas Martinez
- Juan Castiblanco
- Juan Porras
- Damar Liu
- Luisa Castellanos
home: Bogotá Colombia
links:
- https://www.carolmontealegre.com/
contact: liminal.art.collective@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 034-035

---

Overcoming the fear, a practice on post-colonial healing, The Dark Shining Thing is all that pretends to be hidden, yet shines; that for one reason or another a certain part of the population live while avoiding responsibility for that dark thing. 
“Colored, poor white, latent queer Passing for white  Seething with hatred, anger Unaware of its source 
Crazed with not knowing  Who they are  Choose me to pick at the mask” 
Gloria Anzaldua BORDERLANDS
In a capitalist system, the wealth of one is the hunger of others. In a patriarchal and racist system, the acceptance of some is the discrimination of others. This has happened since the time of the colonies. It keeps happening because the colonies now have different masks. We are here to make alchemy with our bodies and interactions.
Imagining something automatically gives it certain properties of existence / makes it real. The way we inhabit space transforms the experience of the space itself, both individually and collectively. This is why the norms of everyday behavior are well thought out, regulated, and have been socially accepted by consensus; whether conscious or unconscious. When these norms are somehow disrupted, in a however bizarre or sublime way, we are opening portals to other dimensions of possibility; creating other possible realities. 
Our main desire has become the creation of experiences that show how life can be transformed in the present tense, building unexpected images in the process through performance art and video intersections.
 Our main tools are the local context connecting the banal with the deep, breaking the barriers between them. Using movement, tension, and work with objects in order to insert new realities in the scenarios where actions take place. Bringing dream images to the material world in order to investigate how to connect the conscious with the unconscious, creating surreal images out of nothing. 
We are a queer activist collective working towards all its implications
 We have experienced that in seven Acts: 
THE DARK SHINING THING (7 Acts) 
Act 1: The shade in the garden
 Act 2: Metamorphosis
 Act 3: Reminiscence 
Act 4. Re- Enchanting the World 
Act 5: Tableu Vivant 
Act 6: The Myth of the Absolute 
Act 7: The blue sky 

The duration of each act oscillates between 60 - 90 minutes
