---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: Elastic_structures__A_performative_dialogue--Ioana_Stanca.jpg
photo_credit: Ioana Stanca
title: ELASTIC STRUCTURES. A PERFORMATIVE DIALOGUE
first_performed: first performed on January 01, 2020
place: 'National Museum of Contemporary Art '
times_performed: performed 1 in 2020
contributor: IOANA STANCA
collaborators:
- Iulia Maracine
home: Bucharest, Romania
links:
- ioanastanca.tumblr.com
contact: ''
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: '038-039'

---

“Elastic structures. A performative dialogue” focuses on the interaction between one performer and a roll of pink textile. Not tailored yet, the fabric moves freely together with the performer who wears a skin - colored suit. They are both like two unprimed canvasses open to possibilities.
The interaction between these two bodies, human and non-human, unfolds before the viewer a series of micro – performance pieces, divided in 8 distinct movements.
Each movement consists of two parts: one of TENSION, in which both the fabric and the performer’s muscles test their limits of resistance, elasticity and balance and the other of RELEASE, in which the two rest, preparing for the next tense moment. It’s a one-to-one contact. What’s next, after finding a physical equilibrium? Maybe to fall. To unwrap. To cover the skin in the twisted fabric. To merge the two in a new hybrid body. 
The succession of these TENSION and RELEASE moments builds what Marie de Brugerolle called “a chain of actions”. A chain whose links are elastic - an elasticity that is a characteristic of the muscles and the fabric too. 
“Elastic structures. A performative dialogue” – first staged in 2020 – interrogates the ways in which body dynamics are influenced by other non-organic structures in a process that generates images. As most of my recent body of work, this performance aimed to use textiles in a conscious way. Consequently, the clothes were either reused from previous performances or borrowed, minimizing the amount of waste.

