---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: Year_Long_Friendship_Project--greenandowens.jpg
photo_credit: Katheryn Owens
title: YEAR LONG FRIENDSHIP PROJECT
first_performed: first performed on January 01, 2020
place: The kitchen and living room of one Katheryn's flat
times_performed: performed 22 in 2020
contributor: GREENANDOWENS
collaborators: []
home: Manchester, United Kingdom
links:
- www.greenandowens.com
contact: greenandowens@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 044-045

---

Over the course of 2020 we thought about how friendship offers space for care, practicing our political selves, and understanding ways of being in the world. We set fortnightly meal dates together to make time to be friends. In reality, friendship isn’t as reductive as this, and food is loaded with its own political and social concerns. The social and financial restrictions of 2020 meant that we also had to rethink what being together and sharing food might in practice look like, and how we might connect with people we cannot be with.
The rules were very open, and were only that we find ways to eat together. This can include others, and can include food we have made or bought. The documentation of these meals are a starting point for a recipe book that will examine food and friendship as care and the economic relationship to food, and how this feeds into a wider narrative around a neoliberal economic narrative of care. Each meal was intended to be adaptable, so that rather than the recipes being a set of instructions, they act as interpretable scores, where ingredients can be substituted based on access, time, money, and dietary needs. This did however highlight a particular privilege of ours, in that using food in this way is itself a luxury. We are able to enjoy food, we can access what we need to cook. Also, as we were thinking within our friendship, the care element of this work was rather inward looking. We are still figuring out how to untangle food as nourishment and care,, and food as a site of exploitation or privilege. We try in part to understand this through our jobs in hospitality. Our relationship to these labour conditions informs some of our feelings about food, and choosing food as the way to spend time as friends together is in part to spend time thinking about hospitality as a guest, a host, as an hourly paid worker and cooking and eating as a collaborative act.
We would like to propose documentation of the 25 meals of 2020, which includes recipes and details of each event, and reflections on what we were learning. In effect this is the equivalent of studio time or a sort of sketchbook, that exists as both its own performance, and as in progress work as we develop the recipe book. 

