---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: How_Can_We_Keep_This_Moment_Alive_--Angeliki_Chaido_Tsoli.jpg
photo_credit: Sungjae Lee
title: HOW CAN WE KEEP THIS MOMENT ALIVE?
first_performed: first performed on February 07, 2020
place: DfbrL8r Gallery
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: ANGELIKI CHAIDO TSOLI
collaborators: []
home: Athens & Mykonos Island, Greece
links:
- angelikitsoli.com
contact: angelikitsoli@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- art
- Art
- audience
- bomb
- exhibition
- flag
- gallery
- Greece
- light
- object
- performance
- photograph
- posing
- retrospective
- standing
- theater
- time
- visual
- wall
- work
pages: '068-069'
---

This performance was part of What Remains: On the Sacred, the Lost, and the Forgotten Relics of Live Art first retrospective exhibition of Defibrillator Gallery’s 10th anniversary year. I chose to work with one relic from the archive.
*How Can We Keep This Moment Alive?*
In June 2018 I was the invigilator of Michelle Murphy’s performance in Chicago. After they finished and while they were standing by the creek I asked them if I could capture this moment. They asked me what I would do with this photograph. I didn’t know at that time and didn’t have any plans. I only knew I was archiving special moments and time-based works with my Polaroid camera.
For the performance exhibition I chose to extend conceptually the idea of the object and work with the polaroid that captured it and now is part of my personal archive.
My proposal for the project was to fly to Chicago from Athens, Greece (where I was living at the time) and install the framed polaroid during the opening of the show.
Additionally, I created 200 stickers with this phrase: How Can We Keep This Moment Alive? 
I wanted to sticker bomb the streets of Athens and continue in the streets of Chicago until I got to the moment in the gallery.
I arrived at the gallery on February 7 around 20:40pm of 2020, with my suitcase.
I walked in the center of the gallery. The lights were off except a theater light that was following me. I unpacked a metronome from my suitcase and I made it sound.
Then, I greeted personally everyone, and I passed to each one of them one of the 200 stickers.
Later, I unpacked a silk screen printed canvas. I asked a few members of the audience to photograph me with the polaroid while I was posing on the floor next to the canvas with the text.
Then, I built the flag by using a pole I also had in the suitcase.
Lastly, I brought the ladder from the gallery and the drill from my suitcase and I installed the framed polaroid and flag on the wall of the gallery. I marked the beginning of the visual art exhibition.
I gathered all my materials and I left. 
(The metronome was holding time throughout the action/performance.)
The lights of the gallery came back.
It was the official opening of the show.
