---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: 200208_MairaValente_EstadoEmergenciaIMG_2785_361.jpg
photo_credit: Sylvia Sanchez
title: ESTADO E EMERGÊNCIA                      *IMPORTANT- DON'T TRANSLETE, PLEASE!
first_performed: first performed on February 08, 2020
place: SESC Santo André
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: MAÍRA VAZ VALENTE
collaborators:
- voluntary and spontaneous audience collaboration
home: São Paulo, SP, Brazil
links:
- www.mairavazvalente.com
contact: mairavazvalente@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 072-073

---

In Brazil, internal economic policies have generated enormous devastation of natural biomes and increased social conflicts. The exploitation of minerals, oil, wood, as well as agribusiness land properties became the main economic activities in the country and condemned us to misery, territorial disputes and the destruction of forests and savannahs (Cerrado), rivers and seas. In a wrong idea of progress, the result is criminal: contamination of soil, water and air, in addition to the expulsion of entire populations from their original territories. Without some kind of socio-environmental justice, the land is prevented from all of us and the governmental authorities show their single objective: to despoil and destroy the greatest biodiversity on Earth. Faced with the catastrophe’s impasse, a question resounds: * is there a possible world to come? * 

Given this urgency, the artist brings the ground as a central element of her proposal. Over 3 hours, she prepares earth-based paints mixing the main elements that are the commodities of Brazil in the international market: coal, ore, soy, beef, oil, wood and water. The audience is able to approaches the artist, while she works, some are interested in the action, and others, in the reflexion that the action itself suggests.


About the title, *estado* in Portuguese means what is presented; that is, a set of conditions in which some situation, thing, place, any kind of life existence is at a given moment. However, *Estado* is also synonymous of *government*, in other words, the entire governance system of a city, state or country. If you start the sentence, you have to comprehend the context because the first letter is always a capital letter. And for this performance art piece is interest to be ambiguous the meaning of these word. 


(the action was carried out on 08.02.2020, that is, before the WHO statement of the COVID pandemic19 and its arrival in Brazil territory)
