---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: Sector--B_Ajay_Sharma.jpg
photo_credit: 'Ravi Chaurasiya '
title: SECTOR
first_performed: first performed on February 02, 2020
place: 'Mirza Ghalib park, Nizamuddin, New Delhi, India '
times_performed: performed 01 in 2020
contributor: B AJAY SHARMA
collaborators:
- 'Abhimanyu Kumar (In_process) Saaqi Butt '
- " Vijay Minothiya"
- " Sameer"
home: 'Chandigarh, India '
links:
- https://inprocessopensource.wordpress.com/2020/02/07/barakhamba-place-where-we-live4/
contact: 2bajaysharma@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: '080-081'

---

In_process Performance art Practice organising project called "Place where we live" since three years, To inquiry of place and space,  space as historicity, the idea of re-interpretation of the time and place, we visit spaces around the city and different city in India, Event  in_process organised on 1st February 2020. near one of the very popular Sufi saint Nizamuddin Auliya Tomb, The Sufi saint Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya is known as the patron saint of Delhi. This place is well known for several historical monuments from 12th century to 19th-century different Muslim dynasty architectures, the Sufi Mausoleum. Barakhamba is one of very small construction of 12 pillars structure and 4 domed from the 4th-century tomb building from the Tughlaq dynasty. This place now is one of salter of street people and homeless traveller, beggar, Street children's park, PlayStation and for local people entertainment place, excess this place without any restriction. 
for the particular performance it was the reaction and immediate action and respond to the place and elements and objects I found. 
I don't have any idea what, I will do, but during the visit at Nizzamuddin tom, I buy rose petals, what people bring for worship the great Sufi saint, surma (eye washer), and I  found one horse toy in red colour around the Barakhanba campus, it was broken but somehow, I like and immediate, I found my place for performance in the central domed of architecture, from there, I started paling and ridding the red horse, after while, I sit down and one person  "Saaqi" started putting the eye-wash in my eye after while I was slowly laying down and put the red horse on my chest and started putting rose petals in my mouth and chewing it after while my mouth is full of rose petals, I can't swallow the petals, then after, I started taking out the rose petals from my mouth and through making my body center and making the circular shape around my body. during several people interacted with me and utter some words and putting rose petals on my face simultaneously other people were doing the actions, I was only listing Abhimanyu guitar tune he was playing during this complete process. and slowly after a while, when I completely tied with doing and repeating and making circul.  I  stopped and holding the red horse and slowly Pedaling my body to out of domed.  
