---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: Lost_Broom_Found--Nick_Tobier.jpg
photo_credit: Sarah Romo
title: LOST BROOM FOUND
first_performed: first performed on February 02, 2020
place: dFbrL8tR
times_performed: performed 5 in 2020
contributor: NICK TOBIER
collaborators: []
home: Ann Arbor, MI
links:
- http://www.everydayplaces.com
contact: nick@everydayplaces.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: '090-091'

---

Lost Broom Found was a durational performance provoked by a relic from a past performance, and part of What Remains at Defibrillator’s former home in Noble Square. 

Investing a seemingly ordinary push broom with a plausibly invented expansive backstory, Lost Broom Found established a lineage between early 20th century immigrants and anarchists on Chicago’s West Side, through subsequent demographic shifts, displacements and gentrification. The past life of this broom returned to the present through the creation of a real invented enterprise (Eagle Broom Co. complete with uniformed workers, paper broom labels, and a living installation of real brooms being made) and the performance of an artisanal act in the form of “handmade in Chicago brooms” in a gallery as part of What Remains. (What Remains explored the connection between performance and relic. Instigator and artist ieke Trinks conceived of a curatorial project that would speak to the challenges of keeping records of live performances beyond the dominant and didactic lens of video and photographic documentation and structured around proposals from artists to re-interpret relics in the Defibrillator object archive and provide a framework for reconceptualizing their value and meaning through new works.) 
Taking cues from What Remains, Lost Broom found  tackled several questions, including: What impact does history have on a performance object’s status? What value does an object have when it is not specifically an artwork itself, or not intended to be, but is now being framed as such? How much will the relic tell us about the performance for which it was originally used? What is the purpose and value of the object? 
At the end of each performance, the original broom was used to sweep away the detritus.

