---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: LAKAJEESSEXOKRENT_copy.jpg
photo_credit: Jacques Vidal
title: UNTITLED  (MENACE MAKER, ROOM WITH A VIEW)
first_performed: first performed on February 02, 2020
place: Presented by La KAJE at 9 Herkimer Place
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: EVE ESSEX & LYDIA OKRENT
collaborators:
- Kate Levant
- " Dmitri Hertz"
home: New York
links: []
contact: ''
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 106-107
---



We met in the summer 2018 at the invitation and introduction of La KAJE, who sensed a synchronicity in our practices. Eve is a musician who performs with electronics, woodwinds and voice. Lydia is a performer and writer within the expanding field of dance. Both of us versed in many forms of collaboration. The idea was a sunset performance but was abruptly halted due to an obstruction: a newly constructed fence. One year later, the alternate location 9 Herkimer Pl. was proposed, and our collaboration was revived. 

In the large empty room, we practiced our practices in tandem for many months. We didn’t control the direction, allowing our relationship, the space and time frame determine the shape of the piece. As a musician and a dancer with little experience in each other’s field, establishing a vocabulary to describe the character of each other’s work was a challenge. We discovered a shared interest in text prompts and informal scores, and used these to establish a shared language, creating systems where we could collaborate both actively and at a distance. 

Kate Levant and Dmitri Hertz created an installation and setting for the performance, installing sculptures, seating and staging. The audience entered into a sound score, with no directive of where or when to sit. The audience was a mix of art, music, and dance viewers and we wanted to allow for the varying interpretation each has for “the show starts at 4.” At 4:30, Lydia, laying in the center of the floor, read a text taped to the ceiling. The text was an entry into her thinking of the role of the dancer, the practice of practicing practice and ideas of the embodied empathy power activated by a dancer in collaboration. 

Eight of our text scores were the basis of rest of the performance. Some were formal, “a line between two points”, others described a character: “the parasite.” We took on different prompts simultaneously, seeking the venn diagram between. Performed as two long movements, each section took cues from a set of adjectives defining approaches to space (interior/exterior), trajectory (exploratory/probing), and time (open/locked). Musically the sound moved from extended instrumental improvisations to ever more structured and rhythmic pop. 

Due to numerous skylights in the space we were able to retain the original plan of a sunset performance. A sculptural disco ball by Levant illuminated the space after the sun went dark. 

