---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: Shredding--Jordan_Knecht.jpg
photo_credit: Sami Ismat
title: SHREDDING
first_performed: first performed on February 02, 2020
place: School of the Art Institute of Chicago
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: JORDAN KNECHT
collaborators: []
home: Chicago, IL
links:
- www.jordanknecht.com
contact: jordanknecht@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 110-111
---



When I first lived in Chicago, I pressed a vinyl record of my own music. Within a year of receiving the records from the pressing plant, I lost belief in the music and didn't want to propagate the objects.

Over the past nine years, I've moved around the country multiple times with 150 of these records, not knowing what to do with them. It felt like a waste to simply throw them away.

In 2018, before moving back to Chicago from Denver, I published a book containing 43 artists responding to the theme of "A Sense of Place". About 180 of these books were damaged in transit. The damaged books were replaced, but remained unsellable. Again, I was left with an accumulation of objects I didn’t want, but didn’t want to monetize.

Although varying in physical weight, these objects shared comparable emotional weight for me. Heaviness of past selves. Manifestations of ways I wasn't letting go.

I designed a system to dislodge myself from these emotional weights. I cut the spines off many of the damaged books and reconstituted them as two large continuous scrolls. The scrolls were rigged to automatically feed into two paper shredders mounted above a record player, sitting on a stack of the non-damaged books with the vinyl record's packaging leaning on the side of the stack.

Before the audience came into the dark room, I hid behind one of the black velvet curtains framing the installation. As they entered, I systematically plugged in different elements. First -- a single naked lightbulb, which hung just below the paper shredders, illuminating the record player and books below.

After a few moments, the record began spinning.

“I’d ask you to stay, but I am gone” crept from the speakers just before the sound was drowned out by the two shredders devouring the two scrolls, regurgitating downwards.

Shreds of paper slowly blanketed the record player. As the paper shifted and settled, it created obsessive repetitions of sonic moments, knocking the needle backward as it compulsively attempted to forge forward.

At some point during the performance, a person leaned on me through the curtain for a few minutes, seemingly unaware of my body crouched on the other side. I welcomed the weight.

The paper scrolls eventually depleted. The record needle didn't arrive at its destination, although it never stoped trying. I unplugged the power cords.
