---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: With_the_Oak_on_Galway_Road_1.jpg
photo_credit: Annette Arlander
title: WITH THE OAK ON GALWAY ROAD
first_performed: first performed on February 02, 2020
place: yard of bed and breakfast in Galway Road, Parkview
times_performed: performed 31 in 2020
contributor: ANNETTE ARLANDER
collaborators:
  - the oak
home: Helsinki, Finland
links:
  - https://annettearlander.com
contact: ""
footnote: ""
tags: []
pages: 112-113
---

This performance was part of the project “Meetings with Remarkable and Unremarkable Trees” that I began in 2020. The title of the artistic research project alludes to the photography book _Meetings with Remarkable Trees_ (1996) by Thomas Pakenham and is in some sense forming a counterpoint to it, by questioning what is remarkable and what is unremarkable, while focusing on individual trees. Although we are often accused of “not seeing the forest for the trees”, this project wants to look at the opposite danger, not seeing the trees for the forest. - During a residency in Johannesburg, in February-March 2020, the first tree I made acquaintance with was the huge oak tree growing in the yard of the bed and breakfast I stayed at in Parkview. The owner told me that the oak trees in the area where imported by a major who came from Kilkenny in Ireland and named the suburb with all the Irish names. It was a tree with which I could easily perform daily, so I decided to record a brief moment with the tree every day, if possible, doing a simple yoga pose, not the “Tree Pose” standing on one leg, but simply reaching up with my arms, raising my heels, standing on my toes and trying to stay there. I did not need any further challenge, as just trying to stand on my toes for a moment was hard enough, and I practised this pose next to the old oak tree (almost) every day between 13 February and 16 March 2020. The performances were documented online and the video _With the Oak on Galway Road_ (14 min 47 sec) comprises all 31 performances. When my stay in Johannesburg was interrupted by the Covid 19 pandemic, and I had to return to Helsinki, I started another performance there, with a maple tree in the yard at home, and have since performed the same pose for approximately a month with several other trees.
