---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: I_Am_A_Haunted_House--Scott_Andrew__Jesse_Factor.jpg
photo_credit: Beth Barbis
title: I AM A HAUNTED HOUSE
first_performed: first performed on March 06, 2020
place: The Kelly Strayhorn Theater
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: SCOTT ANDREW, JESSE FACTOR
collaborators:
- Angela Washko
- Jesse Stiles
- Andy Hasenpflug
home: Pittsburgh, PA
links:
- http://www.scottnandrew.com/work.iamahauntedhouse
contact: art@scottnandrew.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 142-143

---

I  Am A Haunted House: Re-animating Joan a 
A multimedia dance theater experiment  

Sarah Elaine Smith writes, “In I Am a Haunted House, Jesse Factor and Scott Andrew explore the ways that an iconic star like Joan Crawford becomes more than a heroic vessel. Both artists are informed by drag and performative awareness, but this project pushes beyond those modes. Videoscapes by Andrew provide a pulsing, enveloping, fractalizing context in which Factor's movements embody various scopes of Joan-ness. 
	In one movement, image upon projected image of Joan cascade, so that her face seems to shapeshift and her eyes become traveling portals, or voids, which eventually transport the viewer to a quiet, oceanic state of grace below the noise. In another, Factor lipsyncs to the audio of an interview where Joan describes the transition to talkies and relates shock at hearing her recorded voice ("That's not me, that's a man!"). The audio is stretched out and deteriorates Crawford's voice, as if she were speaking through a buggy Skype connection, and the resulting voice is deep, syrupy, indeterminate, and altered by time.
	Factor and Andrew share a fascination with the ways that timebound representation fails. Every representation is, in some sense, a lie--if it contained all the qualities of the original, wouldn't it be the thing itself? The tension arises in part from this paradox. Crawford's likeness has been copied, altered, and imbued with projected meaning to the extent that you'd think she's been destabilized, there is still, unbelievably, something there--a ghost, or as Factor puts it, "Divas in exile from time and bodies and the haunting impressions they've left behind."
	Factor moves with a precision and discipline that is delicious to watch. At every moment, it seems as if his body is aware of the impossible multitude of ways to move, capable of the whole range of human physical expression, but selects this gesture, this angle of repose, this degree of tension. The this, this, this of his movements betray a kind of sublime ecstasy, tensile and present and deliberative.
	Andrew's phantasmagorical queer landscapes seek out moments of uncanny resonance where the edges of seemingly reliable representation shift or blur, exposing portals which lead to speculative realities. As Andrew says, "Our performance is a break in reality, a playful spectacle of live and virtual bodies that move with magical tension, glitching and evaporating into a shadowy, cathartic puff of smoke.”
