---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: I_ve_Got_To_Tell_You_Something_Now--Amanda_Maciel_Antunes.jpg
photo_credit: 'Amanda Maciel Antunes '
title: I'VE GOT TO TELL YOU SOMETHING NOW
first_performed: first performed on March 03, 2020
place: Los Angeles National Forest
times_performed: performed 365 in 2020
contributor: AMANDA MACIEL ANTUNES
collaborators: []
home: Los Angeles, CA
links:
- amandamacielantunes.com
contact: antunesama@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 180-181

---

This work began on the first day of lockdown from the 2020 world's Pandemic and will end on the same day of the following year, a full year's cycle. I live on a forest's lodge in the Los Angeles National Forest near a trail that leads to a mountain path. I wanted to find my grounds in an action performed in a customary way, so I wouldn't loose grip with my life and all the changes that were occurring and what being home meant at this time. I wanted to be with my family in Brazil but I couldn't. So I began a pilgrimage up the mountains as an act of meditation and connection with the natural habitat, channelling my family's matriarchs advice on finding answers in the most unusual places. This rite of incubation in the natural landscape, is how I learned to find a sense of belonging and connection. The women in my family used to begin a sentence when they wanted me to pay close attention with "I've Got To Tell You Something Now." To speak to the true complexity of place and belonging and the fullness of that. Like a pilgrimage to the temple. The culminant moment was the dream: as a connection to my past and my past’s past. As simple as a daily walking practice, I packed a little backpack with a cloth, sewing thread and needle. I didn't know what I would stitch, or do or think about. I intentionally got rid of all distractions and made a point to be one with the mountains and allowed myself to only use those three materials that were familiar to me and my ancestors. Each day was documented with my phone that I placed on a self-timer by a bench about an hour up the trail, where I sat and stitched words what came to mind. The cloth is now over 60ft in length, and the backpack has changed, and grown and gotten much heavier. I think about these words as mantras, poems, prayers and answers to questions that appear without distractions. I believe words are failing us to express what we have to grapple, to give voice to what we need and want to give voice to. This cyclical time of writing each day gave me a purpose to finding words for what I didn't have words for.




