---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: Unearth.jpg
photo_credit: Tatina Vázquez
title: SONORO RUGIR (ANTI-HIMNO)
first_performed: first performed on March 03, 2020
place: 1) A grassy field in San Juan Atezcapan, Estado de México. 2)At the top of
  a mountain in San Juan Atezcapan, at night. 3) In Bucareli street, Mexico City,
  on a rainy day. 4)At the Iztaccíhuatl Volcano during a long walk.
times_performed: performed 4 in 2020
contributor: LUCÍA HINOJOSA GAXIOLA
collaborators: []
home: Mexico City, Mexico / Brooklyn, NY.
links:
- 'www.luciahinojosa.com '
contact: luciahinojosagaxiola@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 182-183

---

“Sonoro Rugir (Anti-Himno) / Sonorous Roar (Anti-Anthem)” is a piece that can only be performed under specific meteorological conditions. I’ve performed it four times, recorded its sounds once. The visual score contains small extracts of the Mexican national anthem—a violent, patriarchal and bellicose composition alluding to war and patriotism. At the bottom of the score, the instructions read in Spanish: “Anti-anthem—score for three voices (whispers) & map for diverse climatological layers. Perform during humid, rainy, or windy days, etc. Outdoors, with no time limit.” When I perform this piece, I think of it as a spell that decomposes and dissolves the original intention of the Mexican Anthem, by using weather as the vehicle to carry these whispers and speak to the earth. These elements co-arise and create a new, unpredictable composition. At the same time, I try to dilute the notion of “border,” geographical, ideological, political, territorial, and even the limits of what is perceived as a body. I am collaborating and working with non-human elements such as the sound of clattering rain, the wind blowing debris as amplified particles from long distances, or street sounds and other interactions. As part of a constitutional law, the Mexican national anthem is broadcasted on national radio and TV twice a day, every day, as political propaganda. A tactic and an imposition to disseminate a fixed identity, a false sense of security and homeland. I want to destabilize this repetitive, fixed event, and use weather as a new form of broadcast that is unreliable, changing, carrying eroded traces in its whispers: sonoro, rugir, retiemble, acero, tierra (sonorous, roar, shudder, steel, earth). Words that in their meaning allude to strong aural sensations are contrasted in the far distance with the sound of rain and wind which could also be interpreted as white noise. “Sonoro Rugir (Anti-Himno)” undermines the original intention associated with national anthems by becoming unstable. It shakes its meaning and re-writes itself as a ritual to speak to the earth by using its own sounds. 
