---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: EEA_EI_image.jpg
photo_credit: David Gagnon Walker
title: EVERYBODY'S EVERYBODY'S AUTOBIOGRAPHY
first_performed: first performed on April 01, 2020
place: Google Docs / Instagram Live / the artist's home
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: DAVID GAGNON WALKER
collaborators: []
home: Edmonton, Canada
links:
- www.davidgagnonwalker.com
contact: davidgagnonwalker@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 184-185

---

“Everybody’s Everybody’s Autobiography”, a durational performance for Google Docs and Instagram Live, was an experiment in participatory writing. It was commissioned and presented by Verb Theatre in Calgary, Alberta. The performance dates were April 1-2, 2020.

For 24 hours, I worked across two public Google Docs. The first document, “Works Cited”, could be contributed to anonymously by anyone interested. 61 audience members added text, responding to the prompt: “this is a secret thing I do inside my mind these days”. In the second document, “Everybody’s Everybody’s Autobiography”, I used every response in “Works Cited” as source material for writing a new performance text: a collage of my own words and words by my 61 co-writers. The result was a dramatic poem on loss, isolation, and change, blending my own and the anonymous participants’ surreal feelings of estrangement and our amplified inner lives as we lived through the COVID-19 lockdown. The project was conceived before lockdowns and quarantines disrupted our days, and the coincidence of it happening in the early weeks of Canada’s strict public health measures changed everything about it. Directly or indirectly, many of the anonymous contributions were about living in isolation through this frightening, disorienting time – the performance became about identifying and channeling the intense individual and collectives energies of the moment.

At the end of the 24-hour period, I performed the text on Instagram Live, for an audience spread out across North America.

“Everybody’s Everybody’s Autobiography” is part of an ongoing investigation into how audiences and communities can be welcomed into performance work on a core process level, as co-creators and performers. Using commonly understood structures from text-based theatre practice as a point of departure (e.g. a script, a reading, a playwright, an actor, a viewer), I’m interested in crafting experiences in which process/product and artist/audience binaries aren’t so binary, and which invite the public into what I’ve always found most moving about performance: the transformative experience of making it.

From the text:

*only in quiet moments do i allow myself to think of my friend
because my sadness is small and tucked away
most of my time is coloured with happiness
it’s getting better
it's not getting better
come down to us
it’s not getting better

what would you say if you were here?
what would it be like if you were here?*
