---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: Sleeper_Keeper_A_Performance_Film--Anya_Liftig.jpg
photo_credit: Anya Liftig
title: SLEEPER/KEEPER-A PERFORMANCE FILM
first_performed: first performed on April 12, 2020
place: Hambidge Center for the Arts,
times_performed: performed 35 times in 2020
contributor: ANYA LIFTIG
collaborators:
- N/A
home: Westport, CT
links:
- www.anyaliftig.com
contact: aliftig@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- camera
- Camera
- car
- collection
- desire
- document
- dollar
- durational
- fear
- food
- gift
- human
- life
- love
- mask
- miniature
- narrative
- past
- performance
- photographer
- play
- thinking
- work
pages: 192-193
---

Sleeper/Keeper was born out of a desire to play within the constraints of my own fears and financial limitations. I went to the Hambidge Center armed with a 200 dollar  gift card and a car full of random materials that, since I can't afford studio space, had been sitting in bags and boxes waiting to be activated. 

Over the past few years, I have been slowly overcoming my midlife fear of performing live. A series of difficult life events happened to me, as they will if one lives long enough, and in addition to more grey hair, a new aversion for high heels, and an admission that I actually do not like living in cities, I developed a case of stage fright. More and more, it has become logistically and emotionally easier to work alone with the camera. 

So when I embarked on this residency,  I imagined that one way that I could play with the performance for camera genre was by creating a performance document just for the camera. I was thinking of what Roland Barthes wrote in Camera Lucida. "In front of the lens, I am at the same time: the one I think I am, the one I want others to think I am, the one the photographer thinks I am, and the one he makes use of to exhibit his art." Using my collection of materials, mostly cheap shiny things and miniature animals, blow up lobsters and Jello molds, I performed a series of durational pieces. Since this was the beginning of quarantine, with the exception of an occasional food run, I was mainly left to my complete own devices in a spooky cabin in the woods with just my imagination, my toys, my camera and my stuff. 

I returned from the residency in the midst of full on lockdown. I waited awhile to edit the footage. It occurred to me that this way of working--isolated and alone and locked inside somewhere--might be an inevitable future. I edited the material intuitively, sometimes trying to mask my technical fuckups, sometimes just letting it all hang out. In the end what seemed to emerge for me was a discombobulated narrative of a misshapen human breast looking for love in a loveless world.
