---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: Stay_In_Place__S_I_P_--Raegan_Truax.jpeg
photo_credit: Raegan Truax
title: STAY IN PLACE (S.I.P)
first_performed: first performed on March 03, 2020
place: 'the artist''s living room '
times_performed: performed 76 times in 2020
contributor: RAEGAN TRUAX
collaborators:
- 'Bailey '
home: Philadelphia
links:
- www.raegantruax.com
contact: raegantruax@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 200-201
---



A wall is not a body. There are no fleshy folds to collapse into. No warm curves to cradle. No eyes offering solace. Rigid. Cold. Unrelenting. Sturdy, also. Still. 

Durational Performance, STAY IN PLACE (S.I.P), began as counties across America issued shelter-in-place (s.i.p.) orders to reduce the spread of COVID-19. During a mandated 14-day quarantine, I rearranged everything in my 484-square-foot home, taking all of the furniture out of the main room to begin, on Day 15, what became the 76-day performance. 

Each day I painted one or two parts of my body with grey house-paint. I performed by keeping contact between painted body parts and the wall, moving but also staying in place for increasing durations. 

On day 15, I painted my left cheek and finger of Saturn, the performance lasted 15 minutes. On day 16, I painted my chin and left wrist, the performance lasted 16 minutes. On day 17, I painted my left temple and left thumb, the performance lasted 17 minutes. I continued in this way for 76 days, ending with a 76-minute performance on May 31. 

I used information on the Santa Clara County public health order as an overarching score. When the first order was continued, I painted my wingspan with yellow paint and held the wall, arms stretched wide for 22-minutes (Day 22). 

On day 23, I repeated the initial score, using purple paint to cover left cheek and finger of Saturn and performing for 23-minutes. Changing the color of paint indicated continuation, repetition, and variation as aspects of S.I.P. 

Each new day initiated an extended duration. 

When all the original scores were repeated I added new body parts to the composition. Day 33, “reverse side of the left knee” performed for 33-minutes – Day 34, tip of one elbow, performed for 34-minutes…The second order was continued on Day 48 and I painted my wingspan yellow, holding and hugging the wall for 48-minutes. 

On Day 49, I began again. Left cheek, finger of Saturn, 49 minutes. 

On Day 76, the county changed the shelter-in-place order and lifted multiple restrictions. I performed wingspan for 76-minutes and ended the performance. 

I could not afford stay in California once able to move. I signed the wall using a permanent marker and painted over the marks – 2,821 accumulated performance minutes covered with grey house-paint. Rigid. Cold. Unrelenting. Sturdy, also. Still.
