---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: Pause--Rachel_Beetz.jpg
photo_credit: Rachel Beetz
title: PAUSE
first_performed: first performed on April 04, 2020
place: The Artist's Studio
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: RACHEL BEETZ
collaborators: []
home: Los Angeles, CA
links:
- rachelbeetz.com
contact: ''
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 216-217
---



“Pause” was a streamed concert performance exploring virtual concert performance, time, personal space, intimacy, ritual, and gaze. In response to the cancellation of my debut solo album release concert, I filmed close up shots performing slow physical and sonic compositions by composers CPE Bach, Morton Feldman, Alvin Lucier, and Scott Worthington. These performances alternated with movements of my “Script - Rescript” sound work with a video meditation on a candle flame. This performance eschewed classic performance documentation by inviting the audience into the personal bubble of the performer. Single frames of close-ups of the face, hands, and flute echoed important elements of the compositions. These close shots invited the viewer into a surreal intimate space, closer than ever in real life. The audience’s gaze narrowed into a single focal point, amplifying micro-movements of the joints and small muscles, bringing the audience into a state of still meditation. Elements of ritual were explored with the lighting of a single flame and performance in the round within the intimate hyperreal view. The title of the performance, “Pause,” represents how my word felt as time stopped and slowed in the pandemic; it also describes how I feel as a listener: that I put my body and mind on pause to take in sound. “Pause” crossed boundaries of intimacy, meditation, concert ritual, and performance documentation and ultimately had the effect that the audience was really there with me, in my room, listening to this live performance. 

