---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: Kotak_Marni_LoveMasks_2020.jpg
photo_credit: Image courtesy of the artist and Microscope Gallery
title: LOVE MASKS
first_performed: first performed on April 04, 2020
place: Artist's Home Live-Streamed via Microscope Gallery Website
times_performed: performed 3 in 2020
contributor: MARNI KOTAK
collaborators: []
home: Brooklyn, NY
links: []
contact: ''
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 224-225

---

“Love Masks” was a live online performance streamed from my home via the Microscope Gallery website on April 20th, 21st and 22nd, 2020, during which I was seated in my kitchen sewing masks for myself, family and others to wear during the COVID-19 pandemic, while listening to the evening news.

Along with the rest of the world, I was deeply shaken by the surge of the Coronavirus and found myself wanting to do something as an artist to help. My mother is a retired nurse who taught me how to sew, and recommended that I make a mask for the safety of myself and my family and some to donate to community members. I decided to make a personalized mask that I would like to wear and see others wearing, one that would spread a message of love, rather than add to the fear and hopelessness many have been feeling regarding the pandemic.

The repetitive act of diligently cutting and stitching each piece of custom photo-printed fabric into an item of beauty to be worn in these challenging times helped to bring about a catharsis for my overwhelming anxieties regarding COVID-19. During the performance, I listened to news from different sources at the same time, such as NPR and Fox News. In doing this, I was attempting to reconcile the divisive voices on the radio--while simultaneously shedding light on some pertinent and other erroneous news--through the performative process of making “Love Masks” to be shared with all. 

Each mask, which comes in three variations, features the word “Love” embedded in a lotus flower, a reference to the symbol of the lotus in Buddhism, symbolizing the beauty that emerges from the muck, or deepest challenges in life. Two of the images are prints of pastel drawings made by myself, and the third is a digital image made by my 8-year-old son, Ajax.

While the performance was conceived of several weeks prior to the live-streamed event, it took place following public mandates that every person wear a mask or other face covering in public spaces, beginning on the evening of April 17th, 2020. Each mask took about 20 minutes to construct over the course of the three-night performance and beyond, into limited editions of 50 of each of the three designs. Half of the proceeds from the sales of these masks were donated to the City Harvest food bank.

