---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: The_Medium_is_the_Message--Duff_Norris.jpg
photo_credit: Duff Norris
title: THE MEDIUM IS THE MESSAGE
first_performed: first performed on April 04, 2020
place: A Zoom call in Digital space
times_performed: performed 1 in 2020
contributor: DUFF NORRIS
collaborators: []
home: Brooklyn/Chicago
links:
  - www.duffnorris.com
contact: info@duffnorris.com
footnote: ""
tags: []
pages: 230-231
---

Duff works with notions of audienceship and interstitial spaces of engagement. His guiding question remains, what happens when we are in the room together? He finds his material from the specificity of these answers and moves outward from there. Typically, he wants a non-mediated experience with his audience but social distancing has made that challenging. In this piece, he is looking to Marshall McLuhan’s phrase, “the medium is the message,” and explored the significance of digital spaces we have recently flooded to. In this performance, the parameters of the digital platform are bent, creating questions of where the performance was happening, who was doing the creating, and who was performing for whom. The digital hiccups and glitches of this became the material of the work, as well as an invitation audienceship to inform the piece. Duff also revived older techniques of live video looping in this performance to question the gaze and evoke the past as always remaining in the present. There is a musical soundscape that is broadcast over the digital call, that was ethereal and built with the visual component. The performance started with a line in the zoom call designated as stage and folks being invited to solo that view. This view then turns on the video call and explores the faces and backgrounds of the audience members in the call—typically this eventually spurs engagement and interaction from the audience, sometimes building to shared movements, random glitches in trying to hand things off between the brady bunch style grid and other gestures and zooming in on features, lights going off, or examination of artwork hung on walls, etc. This eventually moved into a world of the camera looking at its own view of the call and started to abstract and work with the medium’s own reflection. This becomes a world of visual looping and rainbows of light patterns—shifting and flowing with the swelling of the audio component. The performance is an ongoing exploration of the digital video meeting parameters, particularly in Zoom, and going forward, Duff is moving toward an added collaborative poetics with further engagement and conceptual building around the interactions. The performance was most significantly performed with Out of Site Chicago and Experimental Sound Studios as part of Random Acts, and evening of digital performance October 1st.
