---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: sw_JH_300dpi.jpg
photo_credit: Videostill Judith Huber
title: TRIANGLE
first_performed: first performed on May 27, 2020
place: a garden, an artist studio, a living room
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: GISELA HOCHULI, JUDITH HUBER, URSULA SCHERRER
collaborators: []
home: Switzerland
links:
- https://diezukunftkuratieren.ch/ursula-scherrer-aus-dem-hier-ein-dort-machen-2/
contact: ''
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 262-263

---

A performance of three artists in three places.
It is lockdown. We set a date and time for a performance each in our own space. Gisela in her garden, Judith in her studio, Ursula in her living room. Nobody knows about the performance except for Judith’s partner and Gisela’s partner and her parents.
We all start at the same time. Gisela is climbing a dead tree, Judith is listening into the space, Ursula is stepping into a 2 x 2 m square. 
Gisela is thinking of Judith and Ursula. Judith is thinking of Ursula and Gisela, Ursula is thinking of Gisela and Judith. 
Gisela: I climbed the trees, disappeared into them, got stuck with my hair in them, floated between their branches, rose above their crown, spent time in them, next to them, took a discarded cover of a trunk on my head, threw it into the branches, took it as a shield, swayed with it in the wind, experimented with gravity, walked around the trees with an obsolete computer, braced myself against the trees, hopped next to them, tasted the bark with my tongue and rejoiced in the encounter with the so-called old and discarded.
Judith: A light green metal chair - I push it over the floor - the sound - it could be drums - but it is the floor - chair - space - sound - I let myself be guided by the sound - by the chair - what it wants - sound - to be dragged - along the wall - like drawing - groping - the sound - the room is full - reverberation - loud and quiet - with a large spoon, a small spoon, a scoop, different they are, different they sound. There are sounds that trickle down my back, others caress me. A contemplation. 
Ursula: I lied out a 2 x 2 meter square with measuring tapes. I am measuring the outline of the square with my feet by placing one foot in front of the other, moving very slowly. It takes me 2 hours to walk once around the square. 2 meters is the distance the government suggested to have to others to be safe of the Corona Virus.
In “Triangle” we use the lockdown and its measures as our protagonists. What remains: when is a performance a performance? What makes a performance be a performance?
