---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: It_s_You_I_Like--Kyla_Kegler.jpg
photo_credit: Kyla Kegler
title: IT'S YOU I LIKE
first_performed: first performed on May 05, 2020
place: 'Remotely Yours Performance Mix Festival, New Dance Alliance '
times_performed: performed three times in 2020
contributor: KYLA KEGLER
collaborators:
- Music by Micah Blaichman
- " Performed by Jake Vogan"
- " Hope Mora"
- " Ixchel Mendoza Hernandez"
- " Lulu Obermayer"
- " Lydia Kegler with special guest appearances by Kevin Kegler and Rodrigo Garcia
  Alves"
home: Buffalo, NY/ New York, NY / Berlin, Germany
links:
- kylakegler.com
contact: kylakegler@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 272-273
---



It’s You I Like 
“It’s You I Like” is a 3-episode virtual miniseries that was performed live via Zoom on 3 Sundays between May 24th 2020 and July 12th 2020. The piece was loosely structured after and inspired by the children's TV series Mr. Rogers Neighborhood— made in search of empathic connection during socially distant times. The characters and content of “It’s You I Like” are based on conversations with five artists in five different cities around the world who play scripted fictionalized versions of themselves. These five main characters: Ixchel (Berlin, Germany), Lydia (Los Angeles, CA), Jacob (Buffalo, NY), Lulu (Munich, Germany) and Hope (Pecos, TX), offer glimpses into their intimate thoughts and landscapes which are combined, interchanged, and twisted to confuse fiction and reality in layers of live scripted interactions, pre-edited video-portals, and surreal big-head puppet choreographies. In addition to the five main characters, Kyla Kegler plays herself as the director and host of the show. In each episode a surprise special guest emerges from the audience to challenge something the ‘real performers’ are asserting, building up tension or comedic relief or a mix of both. 

Each of the three hour-long episodes explore a different quarantine-inspired topic: 1. Home, 2. Relationships, 3. Work. The episodes, which were written and rehearsed each week leading up to their respective Sunday afternoon performances, were originally scheduled to air on three consecutive Sundays. However the last episode, originally slated for June 7th was postponed by several weeks in honor of the Black Lives Matter uprising. 

All three full episodes can be viewed here: http://kylakegler.com/2020-It-s-You-I-Like

