---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: Indoor_Outdoor--Ali_Asgar_Tara.jpg
photo_credit: 'Tithi Bera '
title: ঘরে বাইরে / INDOOR OUTDOOR
first_performed: first performed on May 05, 2020
place: 'Nottingham Art Mela '
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: ALI ASGAR TARA
collaborators:
- NA
home: 'NY/Chicago/Dhaka '
links:
- aliasgarart.com
contact: ali1987.aa57@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 282-283
---



ঘরে বাইরে | Indoor Outdoor, is an ongoing video performnce series to explore the contrast and the proximity of human, body, space, time and memory.

As many of my spacial experiences of migration and critical thinking are about the institutional culture and the art market, I was interested to analyze what does it means to continue art practice at the time of physical social isolation. As a cultural worker when existing at the bottom of the global cultural labor supply system, how can we think less about what work we are making and rather be more conscious about what conditions are required to make the work possible? Can Hoarding creative energy helps us to create conversations that happen out of the condition of now and doesn't mimic to be a version of what was coming before? As we are surviving the hybridity of our current time and embracing the new potentiality of this time, what new possibilities these can create for our practice? By not just translating the IRL to URL, how can we connect domestic spaces with people who wouldn't usually meet and experience these spaces? Can we open new territories for us, in between the domestic and the outside spaces?

This video footage of this performance were recorded at the Logan Square & Bridgeport, Chicago in May, 2020.

