---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: Stainless_Steel_Nirvana_A_Path_of_Atmanibhar___self_reliant__--Dimple_B_Shah.jpg
photo_credit: 'Photography by Shalini Murthy '
title: STAINLESS STEEL NIRVANA-A PATH OF ATMANIBHAR ( SELF-RELIANT )
first_performed: first performed on June 06, 2020
place: online -Anant Art Gallery website( https://www.anantart.com/Nest?PageNo=2 )
times_performed: performed 0 times in 2020
contributor: DIMPLE B SHAH
collaborators:
- 'No collaborators '
home: Bangalore, India
links:
- http://dimplebshah.blogspot.com/2020/07/stainless-steel-nirvana-path-to.html
contact: dimplebshah100@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 308-309
---



Stainless Steel Nirvana- Path of Atmanirbhar

The cleaning of utensils is like preparing yourself for new process and getting rid of impurities and dirt.  
Different shapes and sizes of utensils are giving form to your emotions and thinking.
Every human has a particular vessel which is their favourite; they form a shape to their thoughts.
Vessels are the container of soul, body and Mind.
Through this vessel, we can do a process to distil and purify.
We can see a reflection of our souls.
Reflect a universe within the body of vessel.

The act of repetitiveness and cleansing is a ritual an exercise to attain a 'Nirvana' this work is metaphorical and surreal in nature this work was inspired from an ancient path to Nirvana by Buddhist monks who go to a mountain—again and again, thousand times to attain 'Nirvana' (Enlightenment). A Japanese Buddhist ritual where monks are supposed to do thousand times circumambulation of mountain Mt. Omine to attain nirvana among monks the Thousand Day Circumambulation is considered a somewhat shortcut to enlightenment. I attempted to understand this simple philosophy through mundane job of cleansing vessel finding bliss and enlightenment in simple act of repetition and everyday work.
I have metaphorically used these vessels as a container of our souls. Cleansing it over and over again the title is double-edged were at one part it talks about higher attainment and spiritual dimension and another part, is satirical and reaction to present situation where the word 'Atma-nir-bhar' has Satirically used indicating issues faced by women's in a household without helper during the lockdown. The pandemic has made it possible to search explore inner solace even in mundane work and compensate the hollowness of these vessel with blissful emotions. This container also created more space within fallout hollowness.
