---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: Grauzone_Yiannis_Pappas.jpg
photo_credit: Konstanze Klar
title: GRAUZONE
first_performed: first performed on June 06, 2020
place: Begehungen Festival; "Entwürfnisse" Ring 8
times_performed: performed four times in 2020
contributor: YIANNIS PAPPAS
collaborators: []
home: Berlin, Germany
links:
- www.yiannispappas.com
contact: y_pappas@yahoo.gr
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 310-311
---



"Because agents never know completely what they are doing, what they do has more sense than they know" 
                                                                                                                         Pierre Bourdieu 


The works of the series "ORDNUNG" (Regulations) are existential, political and very personal. In them, I visualize "Body Politics", which has been established in today's western societies. It shows how the state and its institutions access the biological - human - body in order to enforce abstract power interests in the individual. How external claims to power become internalized patterns - instructions for action and thought - how is put the body in distress, and how all this is visibly expressed. 
As a product of power structures, the body also shows traces of interactions and modes of expression that have become habitual, i.e. have become entrenched in behavior.

GRAUZONE long-duration performance is created for the Begehungen festival “Entwürfnisse” in Chemnitz, 2020. The art and culture festival Begehungen has been taking place in Chemnitz since 2003 as the largest off-culture event in the city. The tradition of the annually changing location is important and committed to the festival name and concept. For this year “We are questioning if our society fits in your individualism and/or Our individualism fits in your society?” Using the biggest area of prefabricated housing stock in Chemnitz “Fritz Heckert” that started in 1972 as the third-largest prefab building area of the GDR, inhabiting 90,000 people. 

My decision for this long-duration performance was decided first when I visited the exhibition room. On one hand, it worked as a site-specific performance, on the other is a universal or global picture that it fits everywhere in our modern society. A human being that is watching the television, magnetizing and guiding in an addicted way - I am making the image stronger with a strange design of a human blinker. My stillness makes the audience wondering if I am a sculpture or a real person. 
This iconic metaphor of absolute manipulation is completed by the use of television’s (thus, the mass media) hypnotizing and harmful white noise. 

