---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: How_to_walk_a_line_.jpg
photo_credit: Mara Klein
title: HOW TO WALK A LINE
first_performed: first performed on June 25, 2020
place: In the field of Below and lakes of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Germany
times_performed: performed four times in 2020
contributor: BIRGIT KUNZ, MARA KLEIN, STEFIE STEDEN, STEFANIE SCHAIRER
collaborators:
- 'No'
home: Birgit Kunz, Berlin, Germany, Mara Klein, Berlin, Germany, Stefie Steden, Berlin,
  Germany, Stefanie Schairer, Berlin, Germany
links:
- https://kunsthallebelow.de/kw26khb/
contact: fraublume@web.de
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 314-315

---

How to walk a line



A performance enacted by four women of different ages. 

The idea for this performance was born during an art residency hosted by Stefie Steden at Kunsthalle Below, Germany. As four interdisciplinary artists, drawing from our respective disciplines of painting, writing, performance and photography, we explored the question of walking a line, and the multiple avenues that can be taken from there. 

We all followed the same instructions for „How to walk a line" 

All of us took our clothes off, let disappear one end of a long neon pink rope in our bodies and went off…

We experienced the same thing at different times in different places, watch each other and documented our actions. While observing, we took note of links and overlaps between each performer’s feelings and movements during the repeated performance. 

Patterns and parallels start to emerge The borders between inside and out begin to blur - who is performing, who is watching? When do several actions become observation and reenactment calls for re-membering: the women that came before you, those after you.

In 2020, an experimental short film shot by the four artists during the performance was screened at the short film festival Kurzfilmtag in Rostock, Germany. 
We are currently working on a book in which our respective ways of re-membering the performance are documented and brought together, each informing and responding to the other, each part of a whole.
