---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: New_Moon_Solstice_Flower--Serena_Caffrey.jpg
photo_credit: Serena Caffrey
title: NEW MOON SOLSTICE FLOWER
first_performed: first performed on June 06, 2020
place: the artist's garden
times_performed: performed six times in 2020
contributor: SERENA CAFFREY
collaborators: []
home: Los Angeles, CA
links:
- serenacaffrey.com
contact: serena.caffrey@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 324-325
---



When the city of Los Angeles was under its strictest lockdown, I came regularly to my tiny garden to lay on the ground and look up at the sky. Doing so helped put me in touch with the land where I live, a relationship I could nurture when so much else was out of my control. Over the months, the hibiscus shrub tucked beneath the loquat tree kept spreading closer to me, yearning for sun. It seemed to relentlessly put out new buds that, soon thereafter, closed back up and fell to the earth. I decided to draw a single flower from dawn to dusk on the summer solstice, which was also a new moon. I divided the length of the day by seven, allowing me just over two hours per drawing, and set a timer to keep myself on schedule throughout the day. The drawings were each 5 x 7 inches, and if I stayed calm and focused, I found that I could just finish them in this length of time. The flower opened with morning’s first light and by day’s end its petals began to dimple with black. As I drew, I tried to focus my attention on the flower more so than the drawing, and when each was complete avoided taking stock of its final image before moving on. Two weeks later on the full moon, I performed the piece again, this time drawing all of the wilted blossoms that were caught among the leaves and branches of the plant, often in the embrace of a spider’s web. I continued versions of this durational drawing of the hibiscus every new and full moon thereafter until I returned to my job. In the following iterations I drew: the leaves when no flowers were present, a bud, a flower again in full bloom, and a wilted blossom that fell halfway throughout the day. As the year progressed, I learned to tell time by the way the shadows fell in the garden and stopped using a timer to pace the days. Alongside the performances grew a text that engulfed the tension and despair of the season. Together they beg the questions: can I ever belong to land that has been stolen? What do I learn from the flower, who blossoms and dies, blossoms and dies?
