---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: e_dai.jpg
photo_credit: Hifa Cybe
title: E DAÍ?
first_performed: first performed on July 01, 2020
place: 'This work was commissioned by PerfoRedMX for the #Confinamiento project that
  takes place online and physically in the spaces Museo Laneomudejar, CCECR and Building
  Bridges AX The project is coordinated by Pancho López and Celeste Flores.'
times_performed: performed three times in 2020
contributor: HIFA CYBE
collaborators: []
home: São Paulo, SP/ Brasil
links:
- www.hifacybe.com
contact: ''
footnote: ''
tags:
- artist
- Brazil
- city
- crowd
- economic
- family
- fascism
- government
- health
- interview
- murder
- name
- performance
- protocol
- publishing
- remote
- scenario
- time
pages: 328-329
---

Brazil has been experiencing a political crisis for a long time, which intensified with the Covid-19 pandemic. In January 2019, Jair Messias Bolsonaro was elected, faced with a scenario of political arbitrariness, since then it has been a controversial government that flirts with fascism and necropolitics. We can consider that the lack of structure and assistance to the most needy, including indigenous people, people living in remote and peripheral areas are more emergent in times of pandemic. In addition to the lack of aid, precarious conditions in the area of health that is a daily occurrence in Brazil, our country also faces a political crisis (in addition to the economic that has been going on since 2014).
During this period, two ministers of health, Luiz Henrique Mandetta and Nelson Teich, the exoneration of both, was specifically due to the direct interference of the president in health strategies against the corona virus, which has no medical or scientific training. Inspired by Trump, Bolsonaro wants to include chloroquine in the official protocol of the SUS (Public Health System) even though medically having several side effects and not having scientific proof of any efficacy in the treatment of the corona virus.
Bolsonaro also referred to the Corona Virus as "little flu" and that people with "athlete backgrounds" were less likely to die from the virus. There was also speculation that the president had contracted the disease, and he, in addition to not publishing his examination, went out on the streets without a mask, inciting the crowd and coughing close to people.

During the pandemic, the minister of justice, Sergio Moro, also resigned, claiming that the president wanted to intervene politically in the investigations of the Federal Police, recalling that allies and the president's family have specifically 6 cases being investigated by the PF, one of them the murder of city councilwoman Marielle Franco.

The name of the performance "E dai?" by the artist Luiza Prado it is about an interview that Bolsonaro gave, on Tuesday, April 28, when he was asked by a journalist about the deaths in Brazil, which at the time totaled 5,017 deaths, exceeding the total deaths in China, and his answer was: 'And? Am sorry. What do you want me to do? ’, Says Bolsonaro about coronavirus deaths; 'I am Messiah, but I do not do miracles'
