---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: ____Yi_Ju_Chen___FINAL.jpg
photo_credit: Jason J S Lee
title: 〇〇〇
first_performed: first performed on June 06, 2020
place: Biexi Timolan Ecological Field
times_performed: performed 1 in 2020
contributor: YI-JU CHEN
collaborators: []
home: Taipei, Taiwan
links:
  - yijuchen.tw
contact: yijuyiju@gmail.com
footnote: ""
tags: []
pages: 336-337
---

In this performance, I sat on a large piece of rock in the middle of the river and looked into distance, and began carrying out vocal exercises with my body and gradually changing my voice over time. Then, I put on a face mask and used three-syllables to recite a murmur-like pronunciation to yell in all directions. I was seemingly calling for someone through my vocal, but no one could identify whose name I was trying to shout out. Finally, I took off my face mask and changed into a paper mask with my face printed on it. I shouted out my name in Mandarin - Chen Yiru.

“〇〇〇” responds to the state of aphasia due to isolation of individuals in the city during the pandemic era. In my work, the transmission of sound represents the individual's desire to connect with the outside world, while the isolation brought forth by the frequent usage of face masks and paper masks reveals a phenomenon in the pandemic era in which human identities are concealed and gradually shifting from the real world to the Internet. As I was wearing the face mask, the repetition of the three-syllable sounds were modified from the pronunciation of my name. But after removing the Chinese pronunciation, those three-syllables became a state of referring to anyone or even anything at will. What sort of meanings can the act of shouting and searching while wearing a face mask link to? Is it a call for help under the predicament of the pandemic, a vent resulted from a repressive indifference of urban life, or the hope to search for the inner-self? And when I finally uttered my name, I still wore the paper mask bearing my face. Does it signify that even if the virus disaster is over, people under the influence of different structures, classes, and media will no longer be able to keep a foothold in this society with a true heart? The physical isolation brought about by the ravages of the virus may one day be overcome, but what about societal isolation?
