---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: You_Can_t_Push_A_River_--Jamie_Doughty__Kristin_Hatleberg.jpg
photo_credit: Kristin Hatleberg
title: YOU CAN'T PUSH A RIVER.
first_performed: first performed on July 19, 2020
place: Front Yard Dance and Drumming Performance Series
times_performed: performed three times in 2020
contributor: JAMIE DOUGHTY, KRISTIN HATLEBERG
collaborators: []
home: Washington DC
links:
- www.kristinhatleberg.com
contact: groundreference@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 354-355

---

The banks of a river are carved out by the water that passes through over time. In similar though truncated fashion, "You Don't Push A River" poured into performance form out of happenstance. Jamie and I joined forces to present work in a festival that neither of us could accept the invitation for individually. Insert quarantine realities here. We chose to present a solo that was co-created and performed by each of us on varying nights of the festival. It was to be outdoors, on a grassy hill, in the muggy haze of late summer evenings.

I gave Jamie the footage of a single take screendance I had made several years before. It was an improvisation on a circular painting the size of my arm span, which we substituted with a kiddie pool full of water to beat the heat. I encouraged her to only retain the movement that caught her attention and to distort the rest for her own means, promising to do the same in my own performances of the work. She reformed the dance, costumed it, and transformed it into something new. I acted in a first reader role during our shared virtual rehearsals. In this sense, it is a dancer's creation: highly structured, precise, technical, yet freely formed and its own boss.

“You don’t push the river.” is titled in reference to a Chinese proverb, saying that you don’t push a river, it flows on its own. It is a description of how the work came to be. There are many ways that the audience could make meaning from these words coupled with what they witnessed in the dancing — for me, it is a reminder to surrender to life. A guide for when to swim, to float, to dive, and when to make a splash.
