---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: Trio_A_Translation_Project--Cherrie_Yu.jpg
photo_credit: Cherrie Yu
title: TRIO A TRANSLATION PROJECT
first_performed: first performed on July 25, 2020
place: the performers' homes
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: CHERRIE YU
collaborators:
- Enid Smith
- Ignacio Morales
home: Chicago, United States & Wuxi, China
links:
- https://cherrieyu.cargo.site/
contact: jyu16@artic.edu
footnote: ''
tags:
- dance
- dancer
- digital
- empathy
- film
- hope
- information
- memory
- movement
- process
- rehearsal
- solo
- work
- worker
- working
pages: 362-363
---

In summer 2020, I started translating Yvonne Rainer’s 1965 dance “Trio A” with a series of individuals with different professions and backgrounds. The individuals each had a loved person transcribe the original dance into a written score, which we worked with to devise new movements. The first two performers in the project are Enid Smith and Ignacio Morales. They performed their translated solos on July 28th in their respective homes. Enid Smith is a a former dancer at the Merce Cunningham Company, and Ignacio Morales is a custodian worker at the Inland Steel Building in downtown Chicago. 


The work employs an ethnographic approach. I started the rehearsal process with interviews, and the information I gathered from the performers lay the foundation for the dance, and sometimes became movement materials or writing. In this project, there is a constant back and forth response between the digital and the live. I am interested in working with these two people with very different histories and experiences to respond to Trio A as a digital archive. And the process of encounter, response, and engagement becomes a “set” solo at the end of the choreographic process, and is in turn documented on film again. The dances were accompanied by writings produced by each performer throughout the rehearsal process. The writings were a series shorts snippets of memories, sensations, description of objects, spaces or routines that do not form a clear narrative. I hope to investigate the kinds of empathy that is possible between the viewer and the person performing, without fetishizing labor, memory or parenthood.
