---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: ACOCOR_--ACOCOR___Art__Collective__Conexions_and_Network_.jpg
photo_credit: Juliana Cerqueira (print screens)
title: ACOCORÉ
first_performed: first performed on July 07, 2020
place: Zoom platform
times_performed: performed 24 in 2020
contributor: ACOCORÉ (ART, COLLECTIVE, CONEXIONS AND NETWORK)
collaborators:
- Juliana Cerqueira
- " Bia Medeiros (coordinators)"
home: Rio de Janeiro and Brasília, Brasil
links:
- https://acocore.wixsite.com/acocore
contact: jcsartes@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 368-369

---

ACOCORÉ
ART, COLLECTIVE, CONEXIONS AND NETWORK

   ACOCORÉ is an artistic resistance project carried out since July 2020, during the pandemic. The project takes place entirely virtually, every Saturday, through simultaneous performances using Zoom platform. The idea is to discuss with actions the survival of art in times of pandemic.
   Performance is understood as body, contact, conviviality (Bia Medeiros). In times when distancing is necessary, we approach the virtual: we celebrate life in the experiment, using the free forty minutes limit available on Zoon platform. The contact between moving windows is iteration and collaboration.  Every week, the time and contribution of each artist generates words, texts, and questions, provoking ways of thinking and performing together in isolation.
  Since the meetings are free for everyone, and open to everyone, every week we count with different people participating: sometimes once, others sporadically, others become part of the collective.
  The collective is formed by artists from different regions in Brazil and abroad, with different artistic trajectories and performance art experiences. Bia Medeiros and Carla Rocha, for example, experimented with telepresence since the 2000s, bringing this experience to the contemporary modus operandi.
  As a result of simultaneous performances, ACOCORÉ has live happenings on Instagram every Wednesday (@artecoletosconexoes). Also a Website with recordings of weekly meetings and an exhibition of objects resulting from the performances. (https://acocore.wixsite.com/acocore)
  Coordinated by Bia Medeiros and Juliana Cerqueira, the collective counts, at the present moment, with the artists: Ana Reis (Goiás, Brazil); Alex Simões (Bahia, Brazil); Arthur Scovino (São Paulo, Bahia and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil); Carla Rocha (Distrito Federal, Brazil, and New Jersey, USA); Cássia Nunes (Goiás, Brazil); Cristine Carvalho Nunes (Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil); Maíra Vaz Valente (São Paulo, Brazil); Milene Lopes Duenha (Santa Catarina and Paraná, Brazil); Nau Vegar (Amapá, Brazil); Raphael Couto (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil); Ricardo Garlet (Santa Catarina, Brazil); Zélia Caetano (Paraná, Brazil); José Mário Peixoto- ZMário (Bahia, Brazil).

