---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: cesura--solYchaski.jpg
photo_credit: solYchaski
title: CESURA
first_performed: first performed on July 07, 2020
place: http:// hypertransfer-protocol
times_performed: performed three times in 2020
contributor: SOLYCHASKI
collaborators:
- Lua Girino
- " Ryn Stafford"
home: NYC
links:
- https://vimeo.com/solychaski
contact: solychaski@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 370-371
---



A cesura is a metrical pause or break in a verse where one phrase ends and another phrase begins. What does it mean to stop, to break, to be in the fracture? ‘cesura’ delves into this space amidst theoretical formulations of the break. A study in putting our attachments into play/pleasure/knowledge/worlds, ‘cesura’ focuses on viscerally transgressive movement, broken transmission, material degradation of moving image, and scoring affect. Engaging Foucault’s preface to his seminal text "Madness and Civilization: A History of Insanity in the Age of Reason", we hack up the text and stage its live reenactment in a screen-recorded transcription.

Drawing on our familial archives, Super 8 Footage, the video work of trans peruanx artist and philosopher Giuseppe Campuzano, the 1950 short film Un Chant d'Amour by Jean Genet which features the uncredited dancing of Coco Le Martiniquais, and sounds from collaborators Ryn Stafford and Lua Girino, we start with sound engineering, editing, automating and overlaying sonic textures to inform new combinations of frequencies. Working separately and together in the digital audio workspace we improvise off each other. Details become portals in a disobedient multitude. The recorded-performance ‘cesura’ celebrates its disorder lending itself to the power-potential of glitches and errors.
