---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: BarbaraLublinerLearnBabySignLanguage.jpg
photo_credit: screen shot from video
title: LEARN BABY SIGN LANGUAGE
first_performed: first performed on August 01, 2020
place: Hotel Dada Fluxfest Online live streamed on the Jitsi platform
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: BARBARA LUBLINER
collaborators: []
home: New York, New York
links:
- https://barbaralubliner.com/
contact: Lubbies@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 372-373

---

I performed *Learn Baby Sign Language* as part of Hotel Dada Fluxfest Online 2020, a live stream event organized by the HOTEL DADA Gallery Base de Arte Correo y Poesía Experimental (directed by Argentinian artists Silvio De Gracia and Ana Montenegro). The event was curated by Mexican American artist Bibiana Padilla Maltos. 

Fluxfests, gatherings of international artists who are inspired by the Fluxus art movement, have been held in American and Canadian cities since 2009. Usually, over the course of the festivals artists perform original and historic scores at events in several venues. The Hotel Dada Fluxfest was the first Fluxfest held completely in virtual space. It was live streamed August 1 and 2 on the Jitsi platform. 40 artists were each allotted approximately 3 minutes to perform.

I was challenged to engage the audience, the other performers, with a short, interactive performance that was interesting no matter what language you spoke. I wanted to use the distortions created by the laptop camera as part of my performance. The idea of demonstrating baby sign language seemed ideal. 
I could move my hands close to the camera, so they appeared huge. The audience could copy the hand signs. It was simple and in the spirit of Fluxus. 
Baby sign language is a set of hand gestures taught to babies to help them communicate before they learn to speak. Some of the signs are the same as American Sign language. 

I wore white and had a white background so my hands would stand out. People did follow and repeat the hand signs. 

Here is the Score for my performance:

Mimic a baby crying. Say WAH, WAH, WAH. 3 times. 
Say LEARN BABY SIGN LANGUAGE
Repeat each word 3 times (except where noted) while making the baby sign for the word with your hands
HELP
HURT
HUNGRY
DRINK
PLEASE
SHARE
MORE
PLAY
I LOVE YOU 
YES
I (say once while pointing to self)
LOVE (say once while crossing arms over chest)
YOU (say three or more time while pointing at people)
NO
SHIT
ALL DONE
BYE (say only once)
