---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: DREAMING_OF_COCOONS_IN_A_BUTTERFLY_WAR__PART_II_--Helen_Lee_Momentum_Sensorium.jpg
photo_credit: Sakina Marumo
title: DREAMING OF COCOONS IN A BUTTERFLY WAR, PART II.
first_performed: first performed on July 07, 2020
place: Kirara-an, Art Gallery and home of Mariko Hirano
times_performed: performed twice in 2020
contributor: HELEN LEE/MOMENTUM SENSORIUM
collaborators: []
home: Chicago, IL
links:
- www.momentumsensorium.com
contact: momentumsensorium@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 378-379
---



“Traveling is a brutality. It forces you to trust strangers and lose sight of all that familiar comfort of home and friends. You are constantly off balance. Nothing is yours except the essential things: air, sleep, dreams, sea, the sky - all things tending towards the eternal or what we imagine of it. If you wish to travel far and fast, take off all your envies, jealousies, selfishness and fears.” (Ceasare Pavese)

On travel, transformation and wars.
Are butterflies always symmetrical? 
Do we value symmetry more than asymmetry?

As a result of COVID-19, I unexpectedly found myself in Japan for 6 months rather than 6 weeks. A country that did not initially welcome me because I was traveling from South Korea. The experience made me reflect often on the history of deep traumas between the two countries. I contemplated metamorphosis and the emergence process while captivated by the poisons and fears of the world; past, present, future. Being in Japan was fruitful and turbulent, perhaps similar to what a caterpillar might experience in a chrysalis. 

I imagined myself as a tiny spider weaving a web as I sewed together white cotton gauze pieces into a 9 foot long dress. The dress underwent several changes and was utilized in both Part I and Part II of “Dreaming of Cocoons in a Butterly War”

Part I was performed at Kotobuki House in Kofu, Japan on June 26, 27 & July 3. Each performance lasted about 5-10minutes to a small group of 1-5. Every performance varied, was accumulative and performed a total of 9 times. 

Dress Mutations:
-black paint smeared, dripped onto dress
-dress ripped and cut several times
-a red circle painted on the chest of dress to symbolize the Japanese flag

Part II was about 10-15 minutes long. The same white fabric made of the dress was rigged outdoors, from a rooftop to represent a cocoon. Before placing myself inside the cocoon, I made some alterations to the dress prior to the performance to accommodate the aerial movements out of the cocoon. 

After the aerial explorations in and out of the cocoon, with a butterfly on my mouth, beetles scuttle by as I attempt to mutate the dress again by coloring over the Japanese flag. This time using black and blue pastels to transform the Japanese flag to the Korean flag. 
