---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: BLACK_WIZZLE--Or_Nah.jpg
photo_credit: courtesy the artist
title: BLACK WIZZLE
first_performed: first performed on August 08, 2020
place: On the sidewalk outside the CORONA CATS art show curated by Marcus Glitteris,
  East Village, NY
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: OR NAH
collaborators: []
home: Brooklyn, NY
links:
- katiecercone.com
contact: ''
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 380-381

---

“BLACK WIZZLE” was a live hip hop yoga performance on the Lion’s Gate set to the instrumentals for Cardi b Foreva & PickUP by DaBaby. BLACK WIZZLE refers to the Black Widow spider, associated in life and myth with danger, female energy, sexual power and creative life force energy. The spider named for the practice of the female killing and eating the male after mating (which is the main focus of Arachnophobia) no less adds to the Black Widow’s lore as the symbol of femininity, sexual power and independence, often linked symbolically to untamable women and devouring mother figures. Nancy Blair’s Oracle of Ancient Wisdom explains that the spider embodies sacred creativity, the creatrixxx who sits at the center of her own world and determines her own fate. In Native American myths “Spider Woman” weaves the World into Being. In Hindu myth the spider symbolizes the Mother aspect of the Triple Goddess Maya who spins the web of fate. Ultimately, Spider Mother's web is invisible magic uniting creative vision with action. She reminds us that the sacred dimensions of being are within the bounds of the spells we weave between cosmos, flesh and blood. Hip Hop Yoga and contemporary danced fertility ritual this piece quotes “La Tarantella,” the Southern Italian folk dance for the Black Madonna of Southern Italy I learned last summer in Tuscany working with shamaness Alessandra Belloni. Notorious “spider dance” full of pelvic gyrating, it’s a folk cure for psychotic symptoms of repressed sexuality and heals survivors of abuse. The female dancing fights her way out of the disempowering web of the parent culture.
