---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: SWARM_prototype_1--GLOR1A__Alpha_Rats__Harriet_Davey.jpg
photo_credit: Alpha Rats
title: SWARM PROTOTYPE 1
first_performed: first performed on August 09, 2020
place: Mutek Montreal Festival - Online and at the festival site
times_performed: performed three times in 2020
contributor: GLOR1A, ALPHA RATS, HARRIET DAVEY
collaborators: []
home: GLOR1A - London, Alpha Rats - Japan, Harriet Davey - Berlin
links: []
contact: ''
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 386-387

---

“SWARM” is a hybrid digital performance environment with no limitations. This space is a unique underworld of sorts. A digital exploration through a world that has no bounds, a world of Black feminine utopia deep underground. As we wade through the valleys of the living, life is a strenuous action at the bleakest of times. We need a route out, an escape, a dimension which is manipulated with ancestors and deity culture. We started to collaborate on SWARM in July 2020, in the first wave of lockdowns across the world. We wanted to create an existence that can be used as an online performance space, and develop into an interactive game that can be performed in venues and on live streams. This world development from a previous concept I created in 2019 with the help of Femme digital agency Hervisions. We created this world to put capitalism in clear view,  based on bee ecology. Bees are monitored like humans, they work, they feed the queen, they die. They are now closely monitored, via trackers, CCTV and AI by humans to make sure they are creating as much honey as is demanded, with environmental consequences affecting their livelihood, they are not dissimilar to us. This piece looks at voyeurism and consumerism and the need to be always even in a space you created for yourself. 
So far SWARM is in its first prototype, and has been performed digitally at Mutek Montreal, and physically for FACT Mag and Somerset House Studios. Prototype 2, an interactive digital performance comes early this year. 
