---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: circular_system_2.jpg
photo_credit: Deville Cohen
title: HAND TO MOUTH
first_performed: first performed on August 08, 2020
place: 'Launching on the full moon of August 3 with our first “Dear Diary” entry,
  we published four more Lunar Updates in 2020 to our website www.handtomouth.wtf.
  Our process is “Notions” based, and we workshopped them within the lunar cycle.
  The website is designed to include viewership and design to function as a virtual
  venue; a platform to share the vulnerability and intimacy of the project’s process
  and outcomes: new experiments, dramaturgical writings, documentations of dance videos,
  photographs, and drawings.  The four “Dear Diary” entries in 2020 were:  BACKSTAGE
  on the full moon of September 2.  SITE on the full moon of October 1.  SUICIDE 01:
  The Junction, on the full moon of October 31. and SUICIDE 2: DE-SUICIDE, on the
  full moon of November 30.'
times_performed: performed 5 in 2020
contributor: DEVILLE COHEN & HAND TO MOUTH
collaborators:
- Tushrik Fredrick
- " Margaux Marielle-Tréhoüart"
- " Laura K. Nicoll"
home: 'Brooklyn, NY / Berlin, Germany / Johannesburg, South Africa '
links:
- 'www.handtomouth.wtf '
contact: devillecohen@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 394-395

---

Dear Diary,
Another full-moon-midnight.

Hand to Mouth is a dance company of sentient and inanimate collaborators invested in the labor of survival. Embodying both organizational and materialistic forms the Company is a distributed social and sculptural system that experiments with intimate relationships and processes. Hand to Mouth was founded in NYC in 2020 by visual-artist and director Deville Cohen with the support of PS122 Gallery.

In the symbolic meaning of the phrase and its reflection on materialistic hardships, the distance between one’s mouth and hand establishes the limits of perspectives one can obtain; anything beyond these physical and metaphorical ranges is considered unrealistic or fantastical. When accessibility becomes the measure of availability, Hand to Mouth asks: How does this rehearsed limited engagement with a world of deficiency and self-deprivation also restrict our non-materialistic experiences? Can we meditate on our artistic responsibilities and possibilities outside of the pre-existing disciplines, formats, and structures of distribution and consumption of materials and resources? And can our aspirations, motivations, desires, and hopes transcend what is physically and spiritually available to us?

Hand to Mouth, as a project, and as a company materialized from a personal state of disillusionment and frustration. The fictional sense of crisis I was operating from was a projection of my desire for a utopian functionally within a failed system. Not feeling integrated or coherent generated a necessity to decondition myself of its mechanisms in order to reinvent my understanding of being outside of it. Desire and longing render themselves almost as survival strategies for a condition of immense needs. 

April 2020, NYC: Week five of self-quarantine under COVID-19, the world outside temporarily fits its behaviors to my dysfunctional projection of it. We are only going to get more lonely, more horny, and even more broke during this pandemic.  

The props, movement, writings, and videos in Hand to Mouth — informed by architectural models, collage, and jigsaw-puzzles — acknowledge the cutout and its negative shapes as positive architectural economies of consumption and refuse. In this dismembered world, the violent acts of dissecting bodies and environments, and the contrasting care of assembling in the collage process serve as the range for the project’s workshops. Can we, as compartmentalized individuals in a fragmented ruined landscape, locate a newly formed incorporated body that has the ability to reverse the limited direction of consumption into a manifesting power of possibilities to interact with, within, and without.
