---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: DW2020--Katrin_Woelger.jpg
photo_credit: Katrin Woelger
title: DW2020
first_performed: first performed on August 17, 2020
place: On and in the river Danube,
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: KATRIN WOELGER
collaborators: []
home: Austria
links:
- www.katrinwoelger.com
contact: jean@katrinwoelger.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 400-401

---

*stromaufwärts* with " Die Fabrikanten "
 
In August 2020 I had the task, the commission and the pleasure to perform on a Zille -a small boat - while driving upstream the river Danube remembering myths and works and stories.
The company celebrated their 30th anniversary and invited artists, with whom they had worked before to accompany them (one by one for two days).
 
Free to choose time, location and length of the performance I decided to go on the boat without a concept, the only thing I knew, was, that I would like to jump, fall or slide into the water.
On the first day I jumped into the water in the middle of the German town Regensburg. The following talks, discussions and impressions led to the performance next day. After a rather sleepless night I had gotten up early (we stayed at a guesthouse on the riverbank overnight) and taken a barefoot walk. I came to a deserted house, which I inspected. I came across corn, harvested by beavers, found the neophyte Imapatiens glanduliferia and Valerian, a calming plant. I took a long swim, talking to the river, thinking of the tales of the nymphs in the Danube, of the Nibelungenlied with strong Brunhilde and about history and time, religion and the perception of women.
I took the plants on the boat.
After departure and some time on the river I took my lipstick and marked my eyes and nose.
I took the plants one after the other, destroying them by hitting them against the planks as hard as I could - always looking into the direction the boat was going. I bit the corn and spit it to the left and the right. I turned around and looked to the back, then continued until the last plant took me with it into the water. There was a lifebuoy drifting away, I swam as fast as I could and got it. Took off my rainbow -coloured jacket in the water. The next phase of the performance was playful - swimming, screaming, diving, laughing, the boat turned and took me in, I took a sip of rum and asked the crew to let me get out, which they did immediatly. Still wet I changed under a tree and waved them farewell and went to the trainstation, where I took a train home.
