---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: We_Add_Our_Tears--More_With_Water__Janaya_Kizzie__Rachel_Hughes__Darcie_Dennigan__Keri_King.jpg
photo_credit: Keri King
title: WE ADD OUR TEARS
first_performed: first performed on August 30, 2020
place: Outdoors, on the trail between Iron Horse Way and the Woonasquatucket River
  (behind the Alco Building) in the Olneyville neighborhood.
times_performed: performed -22 times in 2020
contributor: 'MORE WITH WATER: JANAYA KIZZIE, RACHEL HUGHES, DARCIE DENNIGAN, KERI
  KING'
collaborators: []
home: Rhode Island
links: []
contact: ''
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 426-427

---

We Add Our Tears sought to create a grief ritual for people in Rhode Island amid the extreme isolation of Summer 2020. How to allow mourning to be simultaneously private and collaborative; how to air the wounds of the year; how to make a live, three-dimensional ritual where active participation could happen safely during the pandemic?

We centered our ritual on passage. Grief is something we move through together, even as it moves us.

Outside on the grounds of an industrial mill complex reimagined as an arts center, alongside the Woonasquatucket River, a name that fittingly means, "where the salt water ends" in Algonquin, a river that died due to said mills and is now slowly coming back to life, we set our ritual. It was part installation, part soundscape, part collaborative movement. Janaya and Rachel built a necropolis and altar. We four were the guides through: Attendant of the Book of the Dead, Attendant of Tears, Attendant of Stones, Attendant of the River. 

Participants arrived between 6:30 and 9 and began their passage through the soundscape. They entered through Keri's wooden river sculpture, mounted on either side of the dirt path, and were greeted by the Attendant of the Book of the Dead who led them through a standing meditation to trace the thing "you have lost or never had" on their palms. Each person's body was their own Book of the Dead. Onward, to the Attendant of Tears.The loss they had traced into their skin they now traced again, in salt. As they moved on, they dropped the salt into a large vessel. The attendant added water. They were now tributaries of grief, and the water carried them to the Attendant of Stones. With her, they threw rocks into the river. As many as they needed. With each rock, the river rose with our collective rage, and "something was rising in us together." On a dark bank, on an altar in the trees, the Attendant of the River kneeled. Participants had confronted loss, called up the dead, called up their anger, and now they were invited to rest and to gather strength. The Attendant of the River had tap-danced a rhythm out the altar, and now the taps played in a loop with her prayer. She told participants that they were not leaving alone. The river mourns with them."Beyond this space, the ritual reverberates."
