---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: MUM_MY_Q__both_Mommy_and_Mummy__also_Queer_and_Queen_--Edicleison_de_Freitas_Cardoso.jpg
photo_credit: Andre F. Sousa
title: MUM.MY´Q (BOTH MOMMY-AND-MUMMY, ALSO QUEER-AND-QUEEN)
first_performed: first performed on August 08, 2020
place: Artist´ Studio
times_performed: performed 1 in 2020
contributor: EDICLEISON DE FREITAS CARDOSO
collaborators:
- Andre F. Sousa
- " Berta L.N. Ponte"
home: Coimbra, Portugal / Cascavel (CE), Brasil
links:
- 'Instagram: @edicleison_freitas'
contact: ''
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 438-439

---

My current artistic intervention is a ´ritualistic make-up´ concerning a spiritual-craft that is fully composed of simple colored plastic tape – ´mummy-bandaging´ sounds like a ´lullaby´, anyway. On-Becoming this Mummy is part of a long duration inquiry for crossed-ancestralities under an attitude of being-under possession/transe (yes, activating some of the Diaspora old technologies). It also deals with ´suffocating´ (not quite a metaphor these days) as-being the mask-layer itself or the very artistic support upon my body (and it would r...e...s...o...n...a...t...e with bondage aesthetics), sometimes including a long needle to beseech inherited sewing-contact by trespassing my bleeding out of drawing over the immediate landscape this body holds. This experiment involves the expanded-body as conceived by the so-called Body-Art in terms of a Mummy resurrection for the uncountable bodies of violated minorities (as such, black, transwomen, lgbti+, among others). It should be acknowledged this work faces my immigrant status of living in the periphery of an exchanged country within the Iberian world, myself once born into a poor unfaced vila somewhere in Northeastern Brazil. This particular image was shared during an artistic residency I was taking ("Laboratório de Arte Drag – Montação, Close, Performance e Dissidência/ 2ª Edição") held at the "Escola Pública de Arte e Cultura Digital da Vila das Artes" (Fortaleza, Brazil) under the supervision of Levi Mota Muniz/Debbie Banida Debanda. My name is Edicleison Freitas, I am a gay male, 29 years old, Brazilian theater actor and artistic performer now living in Coimbra (Portugal). PhD candidate in Contemporary Arts at the College of Arts (University of Coimbra, Portugal). Contact: edicleisonfreitas14@gmail.com
