---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: Radar_Queimadas__Radar_Burns_--ANARKOARTLAB__Adriana_Varella_and_Amy_Gillian_Wilson_.jpg
photo_credit: Thais Aquino
title: RADAR QUEIMADAS (RADAR BURNS)
first_performed: first performed on September 07, 2020
place: Central Park
times_performed: performed three times in 2020
contributor: ANARKOARTLAB (ADRIANA VARELLA AND AMY GILLIAN WILSON)
collaborators: []
home: New York City
links:
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8GWMkg2U9XY
contact: anarkoartlab@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 444-445

---

This public art performance is a response to the crime against humanity currently happening in the Amazon Rainforest committed by corporations and the Brazilian government. The durational performance presented by AnarkoArtLab involves two artists, Adriana Varella and Amy Gillian Wilson, ritualistically dragging a burnt and smoking tree throughout New York City. In the third and final iteration of the performance, the two pulled the tree over seven miles, from Bed-Stuy to Times Square, concluding the piece in the midst of a protest.

When a specific landmark in the city was reached, such as Central Park or Times Square, the artists took the public out of their comfort zone by disrupting the environment with a brief performance. Varella called forth those present by reciting phrases into a megaphone regarding the crisis and spraypainting “corporations” on the ground. Liters of fake blood were poured on top of the word as Wilson flailed her body in the pool, with one hundred dollar bills scattered across the asphalt of the street. 

To take the passivity out of the audience, people were asked to “scream for their lives”  into the megaphone. This created an intense dialogue not only with the artists but the city itself. The landscape generated simulates the despair of today’s society, which lives blind and enslaved to the system of capitalist corporations. Are we seeking a parallel world? Can we even imagine a possible solution? Are we all responsible for this? 

Adriana Varella is from Brazil, and currently lives and works in New York City. They are a transdisciplinary artist whose work draws upon gender, feminism, anarchism, and critical practice. Their projects span drawing, performance, photo/video/computer installation, site-specific art, and public art. They are the founder of the ANARKOARTLAB Collective in New York City. Amy Gillian Wilson is an American artist based in New York City. Her interdisciplinary work typically consists of sculpture, installation, and performance. The human experience, the circle of life, and the domestication of humankind provide her baseline of inquiry.

ANARKOARTLAB is a collective of multimedia artists that started at The Living Theatre, who conducts experimental and interdisciplinary art happenings. The collective devises a concept and it becomes alive through synergic creation that is both immersive and participatory. ANARKOARTLAB works with the death of the "artist's myth", experimenting with ideas about equality, collectivity, and anarchy in action.
