---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: S_plica--Antonela_Gonzalez___Rizoma_Ph.jpg
photo_credit: Antonela Gonzalez - Rizoma Ph
title: SÚPLICA
first_performed: first performed on September 14, 2020
place: The artist's studio, in home, during the quarantine.
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: ANTONELA GONZALEZ - RIZOMA PH
collaborators: []
home: Santa Fe, Argentina.
links:
- https://antonelagonzalez.wordpress.com/
- https://www.instagram.com/antito.rizoma/
contact: antogonzalez.08@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- animals
- Argentina
- Art
- body
- despair
- Festival
- fire
- herbs
- home
- intervention
- Iran
- Light
- light
- meat
- metaphor
- smell
- smoke
- video
pages: 454-455
---


"Súplica" was born in response to the intentional fire that burned a large amount of land in Argentina while humans were in their homes due to quarantine.
In my home garden, I burned a lot of dry herbs and twigs and I put myself into smoke and near the fire. My body, feminine, was a metaphor for nature. I hurt myself the same way we hurt the Earth. This was recorded.
Then I chose some frames from the video and worked with them. Later, I took one of these photos and printed it and made an intervention with more fire and wrote the following text:
“Fire, light and smoke. Destructive particles. Active body that emits energy. Dancing bodies waiting for putrefaction or rain. I am meat ready for fire.
I can smell the hand of the man who destroys… the forests, the islands, my ribs. The tears that flow from my despair are not enough to suffocate the ritual.
Combustion and hopelessness.
I become part of the horde of animals displaced from their nests, orphans of land. I run with them, woman- wolf, escape, dance, cry.
Run… dance… cry an unanswered supplication.”
Three photographs were exhibited at the “4th International Homar Festival - Light Art Performance” in Lorestan, Iran since 26th to 29th October 2020. Also, the video was chosen for “Calle Performance” and Cosa Encuentro” exhibiting it on their social networks and by streaming.
