---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: DSC_1209.jpg
photo_credit: anonymous
title: HMPF, PFEGH, PUUFFGH THIS IS NOT MALADAPTIVE ANGER IT'S RAGE AAAARGGHHH (SAY,
  FOR EXAMPLE, THE OPERATOR HAS TO EXPLAIN AND RE-EXPLAIN A PROCEDURE OVER AND OVER,
  BUT THE CALLER CAN NEVER SEEM TO GET IT RIGHT)
first_performed: first performed on September 19, 2020
place: Project Space/2 Nieuw en Meer
times_performed: performed twice in 2020
contributor: METTE STERRE
collaborators: []
home: Amsterdam
links:
- www.mettesterre.com
contact: mettesterre@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- audience
- brain
- business
- collection
- costumes
- digital
- instagram
- interactive
- Language
- language
- light
- male
- masks
- music
- one-on-one
- performance
- power
- public
- rhetoric
- selfie
- Silence
- silence
- speech
- time
- Transformation
- unity
- violence
pages: 462-463
---


"Hmpf, pfegh, puuffgh this is NOT Maladaptive anger it's RAGE aaaargghhh (Say, for example, the operator has to explain and re-explain a procedure over and over, but the caller can never seem to get it right)"   

Audre Lorde's speech, *The Transformation of Silence into Language and Action*, part of the post-humous collection of essays *Your Silence Will Not Protect You* sheds light on the margins of rhetoric in the sense of the public speech because she examines factors that may cause some people to remain silent while enabling others to speak and act, lays at the base of this performance.
The brain cognitively is not able to  be angry and grateful at the same time. Anger can also lead to action, and this constructive anger is the most useful, to turn a hurtful/hateful event into a call out for change. 
No time to calm down, dear.  

Dressed up as a stereotypical simplified imagery of a male Sunday painter, dressed up in a business suit and a baret, I made quick, expressive  portraits. These drawings then were turned into masks that were used in the  final performance. In these one-on-one sessions, whilst drawing, we discussed their anger management techniques; The  different methodologies, like playing loud aggressive music or screaming, or internalising the anger inside by disassociation were brought up publicly. The misuse of power to silence those who are different, silencing and power, sexism, verbal abuse, violence and sexualised aggression, shame, the taboo, and hostile social environments all passed through these conversations.

At the end of each day  I used  these masks, the audience and my own voice, music from a Casio key board, inflatables and costumes to create an interactive talkshow. The audience was invited to share their thoughts publicly.

The final stage of the performance was to create a temporary angry mob. This temporary unity was invited to collectively  swear and shout in their preferred language and storm out the gates of the project space, into the public realm, united through rage, definitely not silenced no more. 

Now these collection of masks is continually growing and turned into a instagram face app filer, to create a globally accessible angry mob. You can send in your angry selfie to me personally, to become part of the digital angry squad!
