---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: Reminents__Washing_the_Car.jpg
photo_credit: Leo White
title: '"WASHING THE CAR"'
first_performed: first performed on September 09, 2020
place: Noel Fine Arts Center at the University of Wisconsin-Stevens Point
times_performed: performed 1 in 2020
contributor: LEO WHITE
collaborators: []
home: Stevens Point, WI
links: []
contact: ''
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 484-485

---

This work titled “Washing the Car” was performed at the Noel Fine Arts Center at the University of Wisconsin-Stevens Point. My performance was set outside in the sculpture courtyard, and consisted of an unfired clay car sculpture, a hose, and myself. I sculpted the clay car into 3 separate sections, with each section joining together to create a whole. The first two sections of the clay car suffered catastrophic failure upon firing when the kiln shelfs exploded from underneath. The third section of the car used for this performance, remained unfired and was the only product that remained after 6 months of work. “Washing the Car” began when I entered the space and picked up the hose. I began to spray water on the third and surviving section of the clay car. The clay was bone dry and began to soak up the water immediately, I continued to douse the car until the whole surface was glistening in the sun. The performance went on like such for 1 minute. After this minute was up, the clay absorbed enough water that the structure became weak. Suddenly, the clay car collapsed in on itself, and crumbled to the ground in a pool of cold water. I stopped the hose and stood observing the result of my actions. I peacefully dropped the hose and walked away, signaling the end of the performance. Through this performance, I am acknowledging the previous failure that occurred when I tried to fire the first two sections of the clay car. I want to embrace this failure and demonstrate how to calmly accept imperfections in the process of making art. I find jubilation, melancholy, satisfaction, and nuance in the act of destroying my own work. I want to share the feelings of tension, uncertainty, and frustration I experienced by trying to create this clay car. This is the remanence of “Washing the Car.”
