---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: rosemary_7.jpg
photo_credit: Rosemary Carroll
title: 'LECTURE PRESENTATION: FORM, MATERIAL, LOBSTERS'
first_performed: first performed on October 02, 2020
place: sheltering-in-place bedroom in the Merrimac watershed
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: ROSEMARY CARROLL
collaborators: []
home: Brooklyn, NY
links:
- "@love.rosemary.carroll"
contact: carroll.rosemary@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 498-499

---

For my birthday, I invited some people over to my zoom room at my parents house so that I could show them some stuff and lecture them.

KEYNOTE PRESENTATION

Section A:  GROUP DISCUSSION    Lecture etiquette and interruption negotiation

Section B: Methodology  (B1)  STATEMENT    “This presentation contains 100% fact, information, opinion”    (B2)  PRERECORDED VIDEO    My arms and torso grappling with the weight and slipperiness of meaty freshly severed lobster claws. I am scooting around on my butt in my underwear. My face shows awe, interest, and horror. 

Section C: Form  (C1)  LIVE READING    Definitions of form    (C2)  PRERECORDED VIDEO DEMONSTRATION    I attempt a foot-led cross-lateral side-spiral with a virtual background of my topless body and a plush rabbit in bed. This exhibits seven definitions of “form” simultaneously    (C3)  LIVE PERFORMANCE OF CONFESSIONAL FORM    “Pink Peril Replay” I sing a rewrite of a Pink song making explicit the gaslighting message. I perform in my bathtub with my hair covering my face.  I rock recalling a description of rape and an ensuing legal trial.    (C4)  LIVE DEMONSTRATION    I enter my parents bedroom as they lie in bed and ask them to tell embarrassing stories about me. 

Section D: Material   (D1)  PRERECORDED VIDEO    I’m rolling vertically through my spine with a virtual background of fish vertebra. Recorded voice “I looked-up fish that have horns even though she obviously has fur…the long-horned something box fish does not have horns like this…” My voice is almost inaudible. The sound of waves is dominant    (D2)  LIVE PERFORMANCE    I navigate my bedroom using movement that has been taught to me as “material for the spine.” I locate a bag of cow bones wrapped in orange netting. Recorded voice “Retraumatizing Confessional” rhythm poem. 

Section E: Lobsters (L)  (L1)  PRERECORDED VIDEO    Pan lobster carcass    (L2)    PRERECORDED DANCE VIDEO “Bait” I dance with lobster claws and a virtual background of lobster cages and orange netting. There is some sex, some melodrama, some tears    (L3)  PRERECORDED PERFORMANCE VIDEO    Cow skulls in lobster traps. Cow skull outside of lobster trap on beach. Feet sinking into sand.   (L4)  LIVE READING    Lobster bait legislation in Massachusetts, Maine, and New Hampshire. Legality, trends, effectiveness and availability of fish, plastic, hide, and hairy bait.
