---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: WRPG_copy_3.jpg
photo_credit: Esra Gültekin
title: WHITE ROSES, PINK GLITTER
first_performed: first performed on October 06, 2020
place: Haus der Statistik
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: LEMAN SEVDA DARICIOĞLU
collaborators: []
home: Berlin
links:
- www.lemandaricioglu.com
contact: lemandaricioglu@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 514-515

---

"White roses, pink glitter" took place in an half-open space on a cold October day. The weather was around 7 degrees in the beginning; in 2:30pm and around 3 degrees when I finished; in 9pm. I covered my naked body with pink glitter and held three rose branches for five hours while lying on a table still. Glitter, which is one of the universal symbols of LGBTI+ community came from Zak's instagram-post: What if we get lost? I just follow the glitter. The shinny, glamorous material which is simply microplastics is carrying the whole history of the world; made of crystals and minerals, used as cosmetics and paints during Ancient times; made of glass and used by pioneers drag queens afterwards and the modern glitter; invented by a German-American in US during the II World War through cutting plastics into tiny pieces. Today, it is used by many queers while making up their bodies an expression of non-normative desires. Thinking that the same heteropatriarchal fascist ideology is embedded in here and now, I took pink from the necrologic pink triangle of Nazi times, marked by massacres which one of them against LGBTI+ community. I literally tabled my own body, in order to point out that I, as a queer body, am still targeted by the same system. To address grief, I chose white roses which is an expression of condolence in Germany. 

I lied almost still on the table for 5 hours, in the freezing space. There are moments in which my body was shivering from the stream between the open window in front of the space and the open door next to my performance space. I thought that it was craziness to make that kinda still piece in that cold especially in the pandemic time, I thought that I was self-destructive, I thought that I cannot bear. In a way, it was one of my most challenging performances, I shivered between my commitment and the cold and I carried it through. 

I wanted to create a beautiful living sculpture image of queer resilience, I wanted to say “We are here, we are queer, we are vulnerable and resilient”. My pinky shinny throat made my heartbeat visible through my arteries, I shared my living with the audience which had to keep certain distance with me because of the pandemic.
