---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: Luanda_Decolonizing.jpg
photo_credit: Ricardo Basbaum
title: DECOLONIZING WITH HERBS
first_performed: first performed on October 10, 2020
place: 'At the artist''s studio, broadcasted through the internet plataform Perforcambio:
  incorporação, in a partnership between Embaixada da Performance Art (São Paulo)
  and Ateliê Terreiro (Rio de Janeiro).'
times_performed: performed 1 in 2020
contributor: LUANDA
collaborators: []
home: Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
links:
- luanda.art.br
contact: luanda.art@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 520-521

---

The performance "Decolonizing with Herbs" was performed during an installation activation, which was carried out in my studio, for live broadcasting through the internet. It enacts a herbal bath, the archetypes of the spiritual entity Pretos Velhos [Old Blacks] and sacred African-Brazilian objects. The performance script is marked by three symbolic gestures: the handling of the herbs, the singing of the Chants and the herbal bath at the end of the action.
During the action, I present the thin line that exists between artistic practice and being in a trance, which is enunciated by the seven ritual Chants, with the intention of criticizing colonialism and the African diaspora. The major resistance front of African people in Brazil was the clandestine cultivation of their cultures during slavery, especially the embracing of the sacred. African-based religions experience great prejudice and racism in Brazil. Presenting this action, performed in-between the art and the sacred and displayed together with an installation built with ritual elements, is significant for reverencing this sacred African matrix, fundamental for the contribution of the African traces present in the Brazilian culture.
The bath with aromatic herbs, which is central for the performance, is a recurring gesture in the lives of practitioners engaged in the sacred Afro-indigenous matrix. Here, in this performance piece, the action, setup and staging are inspired by this practice, but the presence and beauty of the herbal component is particularly expanded, as it is taken in an amount much larger than necessary, considering one person's bath. Because of this, it carries to the environment the aroma and the care, present in preparation of the herbal bath.
With the mediation of a Pretas and Pretos Velhos altar, the archetype of the magician and sage was enacted in the guise of slavery. At the archaeological site of our Atlantic history, they are the ancestral protagonists of the struggle for social equality. The movement of transits in the southern and northern seas, in order to negotiate survival policies, departs from them.
The candle lit on the table, intends to bring love and freedom for the souls who had lives in imprisonment, oppression and marginalizing conditions. Our ancestry comprises Afro-indigenous peoples that Others insist in making invisible, decimating bodies and cultures. But by assembling this image, through performance and installation, we create new holograms mixing images from today and the past and, therefore, a new meaning may become possible.

