---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: The_Girl_Box--rick_h_m.jpg
photo_credit: Miguel De Leon
title: THE GIRL BOX
first_performed: first performed on October 22, 2020
place: Floorspace Studio
times_performed: performed three times in 2020
contributor: RICK H M
collaborators:
- Cipriano Ortega
home: Boulder & Denver, Colorado
links:
- www.rickhm.com
contact: rhmanayan@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- audience
- black
- body
- box
- dance
- dinner
- dissonance
- duration
- experience
- family
- gender
- house
- industrial
- interaction
- knife
- nature
- online
- plastic
- pose
- posing
- pretend
- score
- silence
- trans
- violence
- window
- Witch
- witness
- work
pages: 540-541
---


“The Girl Box” is an evening-length, contemporary dance work that demonstrates the embodied (im)possibilities of boxing-in one’s identity. Inspired by experiences of indicating my gender on administrative documents, or selecting gender options through online drop-down menus, I work to physicalize the experience of trans invisibilization and dissonance whence called to identify. Through movement, spoken word, and lip-sync performance, I consider what liberatory somatic frameworks might become possible through a commitment towards monolithic identity.

I employ interaction with three boxes (two large cardboard boxes, one wooden platform on wheels) to augment/segment my moving body, positing modifying one’s body with materials as a destabilization of gender legibility. The piece opens with a mannequin, fashioned after my own body, posing on a wooden platform for the duration of a muffled version of Britney Spears’s single, “Work Bitch.” Once the track ends, I emerge from one of the large cardboard boxes, replace the mannequin, and assume the same pose for a now unmuffled version of “Work Bitch.” Both instances of mannequin-posing are stationed in front of a large window where the audience views the piece from the outside and must witness these spectacularized girl-objects.

Following this section is a longer improvisational score where I emerge from, un-emerge from, re-emerge with, and submerge myself within the boxes. I pretend one of the boxes is my family dinner table, a coffin, a stage, the house that killed the Wicked Witch of the West. I pretend other boxes are bathtubs, black holes, wombs, closets, a proxy for my own body. I keep various materials hidden inside these boxes: industrial plastic sheeting, bubble wrap, clothing. I lean into gender dysphoria and utilize these materials to shift how my gendered body is being read throughout the performance.

The piece’s majority score of silence is interrupted when I begin reflecting on the violent nature of gender-reveal parties. Speaking with my head peeking out from the top of one of the boxes, I quickly duck inside the box to draw a hidden knife and perform a gender-reveal on one of the boxes, physicalizing the violence performed by this particular gender ritual. Spears appears again during the piece’s finale, where I conclude with a lipsync to a remix of Spears’s “I’m Not a Girl, Not Yet a Woman,” revealing to the audience my continued struggle with coming to terms with my trans identity.
