---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: STILL--Iliana_Olalde.jpg
photo_credit: Iliana Olalde
title: STILL
first_performed: first performed on October 10, 2020
place: Eucalyptus Forest , broadcast by Danza UNAM.
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: ILIANA OLALDE
collaborators:
- Francisco Malacara
home: Morelia, Mexico
links: []
contact: olalde.iliana@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 542-543
---



I created a performance-video that took place in the Eucalyptus Forest on the outskirts of Morelia (México) during the first lookdown, for the virtual programming “Redes para la Danza, Alternativas para la Acción” (Networks for Dance, Alternatives for Action), facing the panorama of presence crisis that came from the pandemic and that affected live arts severely. I explored the construction of time and landscape by inserting nature in relation to the actions of my body and the image. By using my cellphone’s camera and a selfie stick as a tripod, I went out to rediscover nature seeking to recognize it as another body, one that could accompany me alone. “STILL” is about the things that can remain, those that can resist, and the ones that we can still defend. 

I addressed three premises, that for me are statements at the same time: I. La mirada todavía puede ser el cuerpo (The gaze can still be the body), II. El trabajo todavía puede regresar a la tierra (Labor can still return to earth) and, III. La quietud todavía puede insistir (Stillness can still insist).

In this piece, I wanted to approach the landscape as a body and the body as a landscape. I wanted to reflect mainly on stillness, as a notion that especially now seems indefensible. I blended myself with the Forest and explored its materiality, searching for ways to look at it, by blurring the bark, walking low on the grass, remaining motionless, melting a coin with the mud, playing at being a tree, or a dry branch.

This Forest has almost no relationship with the city as a nature reserve and its trees fell ill a few years ago due to a common plague, but because of its proximity to my place of confinement was my pandemic paradise. That place spoke to me of vulnerability and fragility, and somehow, this piece became a continuation of a past project (“PUERCO”) in which I was reflecting on subtle forms of violence and resistance on the body, but now including nature, which is still a body. The video-performance was broadcast on Facebook by Danza UNAM, as an "alternative for action", in very uncertain times.

