---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: Inner_Galaxies--montenegrofisher___Luna_Montenegro___Adrian_Fisher.jpg
photo_credit: montenegrofisher
title: INNER GALAXIES
first_performed: first performed on October 10, 2020
place: 'Artist''s Studio for Kerouac International Festival of Poetry and Performance.  '
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: MONTENEGROFISHER / LUNA MONTENEGRO & ADRIAN FISHER
collaborators: []
home: London, UK
links:
- mmmmm.org.uk
contact: montenegrofisher@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 566-567
---



INNER GALAXIES
MONTENEGROFISHER

Inner galaxies is a constellation of thoughts and sounds developed over the last few strange and distinct months of 2020. A collection of poetic text, improvised sound, body and nature. Performed and live streamed on October 24th, 2020 for The Kerouac International Poetry and Performance Festival hosted in Vigo, Galicia, New York and Mexico.
The performance was bilingual in an English-Spanish score of 5 parts:

1. body inside language - interweaving popular sayings referring to hands, playing with their coincidence and narrative in time, meaning and sound. A mix of bodily words and birds (parakeets from field recording) that inhabit our local park. A reflection on commonality, daily activities, hand washing and walking, playing with narratives of power structures.

2 information/disinformation - a physical exploration of packaging from online deliveries whilst vocally challenging the virtual and visceral spaces between information and disinformation.

3 galaxy of bird shit - processing relations between micro/macro civilisations in a ‘shit’ universe. A poetical and political intervention digesting the pandemic experience in isolation.

4 aaaaaah - saxo-mouth-harp-electric-guitar extended reverberations into sonic shadows. An improvised portrait of shared experiences that question ideas of rhythm & togetherness.

5 nebulous state - politics and nature following the life of a house spider.

You can watch the live 14 minutes performance at https://vimeo.com/472627766
