---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: Strategies_For_Facilitating_Artwork_During_Wagework__2_Remote_Relay__Absence_Presence_--D_R_O_S_S.jpeg
photo_credit: D R O S S
title: 'STRATEGIES FOR FACILITATING ARTWORK DURING WAGEWORK #2 REMOTE RELAY [ABSENCE/PRESENCE]'
first_performed: first performed on October 10, 2020
place: 'Four locations simultaneously: a performance event in Limehouse, London; a
  home in Hackney, London; an artist''s studio in Southampton, Hampshire; and online.'
times_performed: performed 1 in 2020
contributor: D R O S S
collaborators: []
home: London, UK/ Southampton, UK
links:
- http://drossworks.wordpress.com
contact: dross.collaboration@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 572-573

---

Conceived and executed during the 2020 lock down in the UK "[Absence/Presence]" is our second remote communication relay. In this performance a D R O S S documenter recorded images at *XXXXX* a live event in which invigilators were absent. These images were then sent in sequence to a D R O S S member at another location where they were printed, then cut, and the image of an invigilator was pasted on to the document. The resulting collage was then forwarded by the printer to a D R O S S interpreter elsewhere where they were received and performed as a live online commentary with each image concluded with a short text. The documenter was then informed by text message that this part of the relay was complete, and then the process was repeated until the live event drew to a close. Once concluded, the D R O S S printer then collates, reprints, and then binds the completed images and texts thereby creating a zine. 
In solidarity with the workers at Tate who are conspicuously absent from their galleries both on and offline, this action is appended by a set of limited edition postcards.

"[Absence/Presence]" responds to both the absence of work for casual gallery staff due to the closure of institutions during the pandemic, and too the presence of numerous exhibitions and live events taking advantage of this vacuum by staging events on and offline that require no workers. Developed as a strategy to examine the relationship between subjectivation and the performative, this intervention draws attention to the presence of artist invigilators, or in this case while in an indefinite hiatus, their absence.    

Active since 2016, D R O S S are a collaborative group of gallery invigilators who critically examine their work and workplace. Consisting of a fluid membership of casual workers employed in several institutions across Britain, we are interested in art-working while at work, interrogating spectatorship and subjectivation and in subverting curatorial intent. We make both public and covert works, research, and interventions. Due to the nature of our activities and to protect our members from scrutiny, some details have been omitted. 
