---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: NYBOT_OCT312020.jpg
photo_credit: Benjamin Reed Langford
title: OCT 31 2020
first_performed: first performed on October 31, 2020
place: The Allen Street Mall (Lower Manhattan)
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: THE NEW YORK BOARD OF TASTE
collaborators: []
home: New York, New York
links: []
contact: thenewyorkboardoftaste@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 578-579

---

The New York Board of Taste actualized “OCT 31 2020” in alignment with the blue moon on the thirty first of October two thousand twenty.

The action was taken as reclamation of public space and to liberate expression from the paralyzing confines of common contemporary platform. These include and are not limited to: private institutions, public institutions, art fairs, galleries, virtual exhibition et al. 

Participants were invited to contribute to a ten-year time capsule to be buried in a public median in lower Manhattan.

Members gathered around midnight and broke ground, designating a portion of the Allen street mall as public custodian of “OCT 31 2020”

An empty box fashioned from broken furniture and local discard was lowered into the earth 4 feet below its surface. Each gesture was documented as it entered the box. Collectively the capsule was sealed with screws, chained shut and buried in situ by the kicking of soil.

The entombed capsule contains, among others things: an edible bouquet, printed text, shibari copper breasts, paintings, written letters, a stuffed animal, drawings, a lottery ticket, furled indigo shibori, Yunnan pu’er tea, birch tar and a text message.

A solid metal marker 2 inches thick 12 inches wide and 8 inches tall milled “OCT 31 2020” was implanted on the surface above the burial site and garnished with a beetle infested milkweed pod and a single wild rose from a nearby bush.


“Oct 31 2020” will be dug up on the 31st of October 2030.
