---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: Treading_Lightly--Miguel_Sbastida.jpg
photo_credit: Miguel Sbastida
title: TREADING LIGHTLY
first_performed: first performed on October 10, 2020
place: 'Lagunas de Canyada del Hoyo y Torcas de los Palancares '
times_performed: performed six times in 2020
contributor: MIGUEL SBASTIDA
collaborators: []
home: Madrid, Spain
links:
- www.miguelsbastida.com
contact: studio@miguelsbastida.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 580-581
---



* “The locals call this place “Tierra Muerta”, meaning Dead Land… 
Underground water has slowly dissolved calcareous rock all around, opening up massive cavities that in time have collapsed, creating abrupt depressions in the landscape. Geologists say the entire territory is hollow and unstable and that it might collapse soon. The only thing that remains uncertain is when that will happen. 
As I say these words, my breath releases molecules of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. These phrases will be carried away, unheard by most; acidifying groundwater and enhancing the dissolution of this same bedrock. Slowly adding uncertainty to the soil, cultivating instability.
We often think about our hands when it comes to sensorial organs for touch, but walking barefoot is the way we palpate the Earth as we traverse across its surface. I often wonder if we get lost because we don’t pay attention to our feet. Some people still have that quality but I have lost it; I don’t feel the emptiness underneath anymore, but I know it’s there. I guess someone told me, like science often does. We know yet we still inhabit this liminal space: waiting, denying the void, just guiding ourselves by sight, unknowing of when the landscape will cede under our weight…” * 
(audio-narration fragment from *Treading Lightly*)

“Treading Lightly” is a site-responsive performance that I carried-out in late October 2020, in the midst of a political, sanitary, environmental and social crisis.

The action took place near Canyada del Hoyo (Cuenca, Spain), a territory known as *Tierra Muerta* by the locals, accounting to the many abrupt depressions in the landscape caused by the ground’s subsidence. In my performance, I activated the very edge of these steep depressions by carefully walking barefoot along its edge. 

The performance was both a means to address the ongoing instability of the world we live in, and also a way to embody its uncertainty. In walking barefoot, I found the tactile safety of connection with the land; an increased openness to external stimuli that I understand as paramount to face the current challenges of our time, and the more than plausible eventuality of collapse.

The action has been documented through a video that captures the critical strides along the edge of the precipice, in conversation with a background narration that situates the entire action (partially cited above). 

