---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: When_You_Hear_The_Whistle__An_Election_Eve_Sanctuary_Freakout_Zone--Sholeh_Asgary__Heather_Kapplow.jpg
photo_credit: Sholeh Asgary & Heather Kapplow
title: 'WHEN YOU HEAR THE WHISTLE: AN ELECTION-EVE SANCTUARY/FREAKOUT ZONE'
first_performed: first performed on November 03, 2020
place: Co-Hosted by Arab AMP, in Oakland CA & AMP (Art Market Provincetown) in Provincetown
  MA
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: SHOLEH ASGARY, HEATHER KAPPLOW
collaborators: []
home: Boston, MA / Oakland, CA
links: []
contact: zoomagainstzoom@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 590-591
---


The USA had a surreal Presidential election season. There was constant ‘dog whistling’ when we were all already living like tea kettles, building up heads of steam, full of information we could barely keep track of (or track), with only flatscreen versions of our friends and families to turn to for comfort in Pandemic times. Unknowns filled all of the pages of our calendars, and the minutes of our clocks were bent beyond recognition. We felt we were peering into fog trying to find some clarity—or maybe just learning how to discern comforting patterns in swirling steam.

On election night (November 3, 2020) from 6pm EST until 8pm PST (five hours), “When You Hear The Whistle” held open a long, swirling, mostly non-verbal, drop in/drop out Zoomspace for people to take communal respite within during election eve on both the East and West Coasts of the USA.

“When You Hear The Whistle” was a space to cast non-transmittable feelings as the absurdity/horror of a peak moment of political theater unfolded in real time. A space to honor impulses: to scream, to crawl under a blanket, to drink heavily, etc. A virtual location for the energy that couldn’t be put anywhere else on election eve to build up, build up, build up, release, release, release, keep moving, keep moving, keep swirling. 

Through participatory textual, gestural and sound prompts, and with improvisational layering of live and pre-captured sound and imagery, we created something ritualistically antithetical to what was going on in the mainstream media (while also incorporating snippets of it that were ambient—floating through various participants’ background environments.)

“When You Hear The Whistle” was the third in an ongoing series of audience-participatory, collaborative explorations using prompts and immersion in sense and process within the context of Zoom gatherings. Our experiments are meant to disambiguate image from experience, and to subvert the capacity of this corporate technology, which colonized our private lives in 2020, to contain us or dictate our behavior. By foregrounding the liminal and chaotic within Zoomspace, we are modeling new possibilities and buying time for things to emerge that are beyond current imagination. We are also reminding ourselves and others that interfaces are political and that they can be adapted, broken down, or changed completely if (and only if) their limitations are made fully visible.
