---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: Jason_Lee___Travel_Body.jpg
photo_credit: Chia-hang Liu
title: "ISLAND-LIFE 2.0: TRAVELED BODY"
first_performed: first performed on October 10, 2020
place: Taipei Contemporary Art Center
times_performed: performed 1 in 2020
contributor: JASON J S LEE
collaborators: []
home: Taipei, Taiwan & Singapore
links:
  - www.jasonlee.sg
contact: jason@jasonlee.sg
footnote: ""
tags: []
pages: 592-593
---

“Island-Life” started as a series of performance in 2019. The work is a personal response to my experience of living in Taiwan since 2016. I seek to interpret the unique political environment I observed in my daily life through body movement as well as water which symbolised the vitality of human soul.

“Island-Life 2.0: Traveled Body” explores the relationship between Taiwan and myself as a foreigner living in this island nation. Who am I in this city? Where do I belong in this city? Am I being seen differently as a foreigner based on my nationality?

“Traveled Body”, the second performance piece of the Island-Life series, continued the concept and spirit of the previous piece presented in Tainan during 2019 - using water as the main axis of the work to symbolise ‘island’ and ‘life’, complementing with my own body to amalgamate the three different elements together in a particular space to engage in an exploratory dialogue.

The work was presented in a performance art festival that took place at an arts space located within Twatutia town in Taipei City. Twatutia is a major historical and cultural site of attraction in Taipei filled with many old buildings. I chose a small alley measuring about 25 meters in length and 2 meters in width outside the festival venue as the space for my performance. The alley is surrounded by old apartment buildings on both sides.

During the performance, the entire alley was paved with a long red cloth. At the starting point of the alley, I placed a city map of Taipei on the ground. I covered my body with a piece of white cloth to represents the idea of a ‘foreign’ identity. With a bucket of water on one hand, I slowly walked towards the back doors windows of the apartment tenants on both sides, spraying water on the windows and doors in an attempt to express a strong desire to open up a dialogue with the local residents. This action is motivated by the belief that every building in a city has human life and soul.
