---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: 710196__DELUSIONS_--_.jpg
photo_credit: 'Tanja Drobnjak '
title: 710196 (DELUSIONS)
first_performed: first performed on November 11, 2020
place: 'Podroom Gallery, Belgrade Cultural Center '
times_performed: performed 1 in 2020
contributor: "-"
collaborators:
- Lana Pavkov
- " Milica Drinić"
- " Katarina Kostandinović"
home: 'Belgrade, Serbia '
links:
- 'www.brankomiliskovic.wordpress.com '
contact: milisskovic@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 618-619

---

Performance ''710196'' took place at the opening of my solo exhibition DELUSIONS and lasted for 2 hours. Due to pandemic measures, only five people were allowed at a time, which established a very unique chamber atmosphere. Visitors were not allowed to take photos or videos, which made them very focused and present. 
I often think, from the position of a performance artist, how the audience observes me, what they see. It's not a theatrical performance, it's a sculpture, a living sculpture. Does that shape of the body make sense, is the body too elongated, is it too tense? In that position, I felt the people around me, even though I was staring at the ceiling all the time. Very strange deceptions and illusions took place during the "live installation". I had the feeling that the ceiling beam dropped a few centimeters from my eye, also, I had a feeling that it was very far away. I felt claustrophobic in the moments when the beam was close to my face. It even moved. I used to see people up there. These are deceptions, these are no longer illusions, this condition does not allow my brain to shut down. I would hear people who know me greet me while passing by, I probably knew them too. That seemed very naive to me. I had a feeling that there were people, but I couldn't permit myself to think about them. It's a weird reverie. I am not a body that sees you, I am a new entity that no longer recognizes you. The body was in space, and around it are memories that others enter. Every time someone new entered the gallery they would bring a cold wave with them.
There is always a moment of surprise in my work, and first I have to surprise myself. I can't do rehearsals, then that's not it anymore. That is why a bizarre feeling appeared in the body, so motionless. I felt the body move, go away, move left, then right. Sometimes it would shorten, and sometimes I would feel that the body is in two parts. As if there is no middle. As I laid and as the body breathed, all the mental images found in the projections, the overlapping sounds, and the repetitions come to the fore because all the senses are sharpened at that moment.

