---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: In_Plain_Sight_site_--Carly_J_Bales__Laure_Drogoul.jpg
photo_credit: Richard Kennedy
title: IN PLAIN SIGHT(SITE)
first_performed: first performed on November 21, 2020
place: Le Mondo
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: CARLY J BALES, LAURE DROGOUL
collaborators:
- Bashi Rose
- Michele Blu
- Lynn Hunter
- Sifu Sun
- Noelle Tolbert
- Alisa Glen
- Katie Macyshyn
- April Lewis
- Sun English Jr.
home: Baltimore, MD
links:
- carlybales.com
contact: ''
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 626-627

---

*The veils between worlds are thin and we can easily slip through.*

In response to a year of breaking open and realities colliding, we collaborated with nine other artists to create a performance that explored portals, gateways, and the movement between realities, past and present, real and speculative.

To begin the process, artists were provided decaying and salvaged travel trunks that they each used as a visual prompt in creating their individual performance pieces. Shape-shifting between times and dimensions, these performances conjured personal visions of what is and what could be. These visions aimed to question the viewer’s sight, embody the present impossible, and transport us into the collective unknown.

“In Plain Sight(site)” became a singular performance comprised of these different visions weaving in and out of each other. Set in an interdimensional transit station, alien bellhops led the audience between these different performances as they rose and fell across the space and eventually swelled into a cacophonous finale.

As a distanced performance in the time of COVID-19, audiences gathered in masks on the sidewalk outside the performance space and witnessed “In Plain Sight(site)” from the large storefront windows and open doors of the venue. “In Plain Sight(site)” was meant as an opportunity to collaborate and create within the means and constraints of our current environment and with the resources we had at hand.
