---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: GETSEMANI--Yohana_Oizumi.jpg
photo_credit: Isadora Falcão
title: GETSEMANI
first_performed: first performed on November 11, 2020
place: The artist's studio
times_performed: performed 1 in 2020
contributor: YOHANA OIZUMI
collaborators: []
home: São Paulo, SP
links: []
contact: ''
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 628-629

---

The “Getsemani” Series is one of the answers to the anguish and internal struggles that I have with my various selves. The title of the series is a reference to the messianic struggle to accept and face psychological battles that we are fighting. The performance concept is the exhaustion of the clay material and my own body, by repeatedly kneading the raw clay in intimate contact with me
I get on my knees and start kneading 10 kilos of raw clay in my lap. For 23 minutes I interact and fight with this clay, knead it, pull it out, punch it, make movements that stick it, with the poetic intention of tearing me up and seeing me inside, looking for my viscera.
The choice to work with clay comes in my research at first because it is the material for creating Genesis and also because it presents physically possibilities for construction and deconstruction. The chosen posture on your knees is a reference to prayer and penance. Through performance, I look for the visceral, the essence when deconstructing, reconstructing, accepting and reframing brands and molds.
“Getsemani, II” is a photo performance in which it presents the moment when I am dirty and exhausted during an internal struggle, externalized by the impact of my body with the clay material. The two are transformed, the woman and the clay.
