---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: CarronLittle_InEightActsgs.jpg
photo_credit: Carron Little
title: IN EIGHT ACTS
first_performed: first performed on November 22, 2020
place: Experimental Sound Studio quarantine concert series
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: QUEEN OF LUXURIA
collaborators: []
home: Chicago, IL
links:
- http://carronlittle.com/
contact: carronlittle@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 630-631
---


‘In Eight Acts’ began as a poem written the week of the U.S. election to reflect the complexity of the moment to build love, hope, and understanding in the pandemic times of 2020. Each stanza begins with the words “my love stands”, “my love listens”, “my love breaths”. In selecting action words related to the body I fuse poetry and performance to create an embodied experience with the audience. The duality of ideas entwined in each stanza creates a musicality in the vocal performance as words interweave the body with text. I constructed the performance in digital space and live streamed using animation, digital video effects, and analog aesthetics performing in my persona of queen of luxuria. Each stanza is transformed into a different virtual world providing unexpected surprises throughout the performance. My aesthetic has been defined as a sparkly palette of utopia. In this work I oscillate between beauty and horror. The performance is a lyric for hope while also acknowledging the darkness the global community has had to face in 2020. This was created in direct response, and provides a commentary on, the ramifications of systemic racism and political precarity that people in the U.S. have endured. The performance was created to provide a light of hope to people in these bleak times.

My poetry is integrated into a performance art score using movement and interactive elements. The ancient poetic tradition where poets mirror the problems back to society so people can perceive the issues from different angles, and then reflect and resolve is part of my intention as a performer. The performance was created in the Chicago chapter of Field Workshop in Fall 2020 and live streamed as part of Experimental Sound Studio quarantine concert series on Sunday November 22, 2020. 

In addition to performing as queen of luxuria I organize Out of Site Chicago, a public performance program. During 2020 I moved Out of Site online to support alumni artists to create performances. Out of Site has formed a collective community working in collaboration with Experimental Sound Studio to host performance art. The work of Out of Site and queen of luxuria is focused on the production of public performance to facilitate art and cultural dialogue with the public. The investigation of the body in site | time is part of the ongoing performance research and investigation that was a structural device ‘In Eight Acts’.
