---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: My_Dads_Keys.jpg
photo_credit: Kanne Arbour-Boehme
title: KEY SORT
first_performed: first performed on November 28, 2020
place: domainevente
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: JOHN G. BOEHME
collaborators: []
home: Victoria, BC, Canada
links:
- http://johngboehme.weebly.com/
contact: johngboehme@shaw.ca
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 638-639
---


Title:Key Sort Performance 2:00 hours 
Performance documentation 
Description:  600 keys from my recently deceased father’s estate are meticulously sorted, categorized and laid out on a child’s bed in an effort to come to terms with absence Loss and commitment.  In this performance personal keys allow access to compartments that make up family, relationship & community. 

John G. Boehme identifies as a cisgender white male of German and Scottish heritage currently living in Victoria, BC Canada the Lekwungen speaking homeland of the Esquimalt, Songhees peoples. Boehme describes recent work as "trans-disciplinary" often employing performance, video, audio & objects simultaneously, Boehme is not constrained to any particular creative mode &  therefore utilizes integrated approaches to realize the work. John continues to have exhibitions, screenings & participate in festivals across Canada, Australia, the Americas, United Kingdom, Europe & China. John is an Artist & Educator, teaching Performance Art, Ceramics & Sculpture as a continuing faculty of the Visual Arts Department at Camosun College.
Artist Statement: What interests me is the ongoing reformulation of a set of key interests. These interests are drawn from my observations of Western society’s less considered compulsions. Exploring the performance of gender, specifically masculinity, the valorization of labour, the pursuit of leisure, and the marshalling of amity. I explore language and paralanguage, that is, both the spoken and gestural aspects of human communication.
 
Live artwork presents a direct relationship with material, with action and process, with human interaction, as I understand it. Physical involvement is the most embodied way in which to create meaning. Through durational works both the artist and the audience gain access to the experience uniquely available through such commitment. This is of course the archetypal modality of ‘performance art’, an experience that unfolds through an extended period of time. Nothing can replace that learning, that specific duration of being. Although there is no alternative to the durational aspect of performance per se, I remain interested in the question of representation of performance. The very clear and obvious problem of making the ephemeral available to a larger audience at a different time. Using video and/or photography to “reconstruct” an event makes publication and discourse possible. Despite its material concerns I believe that art is rendered ultimately in the social domain.
