---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: Say_Ahhh--Laurel_Jay_Carpenter.jpg
photo_credit: Screenshot by Gresol Art
title: SAY AHHH
first_performed: first performed on November 11, 2020
place: 'FEM International (Zoom) Meeting of Women Performance Artists organized by
  Gresol Art, Girona, Spain '
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: LAUREL JAY CARPENTER
collaborators: []
home: Newcastle UK
links:
- laureljay.com
contact: ''
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 656-657
---



The pandemic has fallowed my performance practice. Even in the long stretch of self-isolation, I have had little interest in sharing work on a digital platform, reproaching its lack of both liveness and liveliness. After nearly a year of active non-participation, I was offered an invitation that unsettled my slump. Gresol Art is an artist-run organization that has been facilitating the FEM festival for 17 years, supporting feminist intentions in their ongoing research on interconnectedness and performance synchronicity. FEM20 was online, of course, with nearly 50 artists offering randomly-selected performance duets for 5 minutes. Surely, I could make such a short and structured video performance for a community I have long admired.

Using only the laptop camera within the Zoom meeting platform, I accessed places previously unexplored in my practice. I got up close. The performance featured my mouth encasing the laptop lens, wooden depressor pushed to tongue, a pin light searching the frame of my wide-open mouth. Saying “ahhh-ahhh” bares deep inside the cavity of mouth and throat. A messy test of self-diagnosis, the performance exposes the site of anxiety, the source of this long isolation.

Reconsidering the intersection between the live and the mediated, performance and its document, “Say Ahhh” as a live performance for video tills the lineage of Peggy Phelan’s purist ontology of performance toward Philip Auslander’s redefinition of liveness, and further references Laura’s Mark’s collapsing of the visual and the haptic. This is an (un)practice(d)-based and digital-_lite_ inquiry derived by means of a performer's knowledge of spatial and embodied experience, and certainly references both Annie Sprinkle’s 1990 live performance “Public Cervix Announcement” as well as VALIE EXPORT’s 2007 video work “The voice as performance, act and body.”

The duet was performed with Martine Viale. For the full roster of FEM20, please see: gresolart.com/fem_2020.
