---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: cancel_debt___promissory_note--april_vendetta.jpg
photo_credit: Courtesy of the artist.
title: CANCEL DEBT / PROMISSORY NOTE
first_performed: first performed on December 12, 2020
place: The Tisch Fringe Festival 2020 - Virtual Event, New York University
times_performed: performed 3 in 2020
contributor: APRIL VENDETTA
collaborators: []
home: Brooklyn, NY
links:
- archive.org/details/canceldebt
contact: ''
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 670-671

---

This performance and video are dedicated to David Graeber 1961-2020.

Please Note: Due to the COVID-19 global pandemic this performance was held entirely online.

Video transcript:

[00:09:52] Debt has a controlling interest in higher education, wage stagnation, maintains a system of exploitation among hourly laborers, live paycheck to paycheck or be crushed by debt, maybe both at the same time. While the promise of a good job or a living wage continues to remain just outside your grasp. Control is maintained by a series of devices that prey on the physical and psychological parts of our bodies. How we maintain a sense of control depends upon our perception of reality.

[00:13:37] A floor mat for comfort, a floor mat for control, a format for comfort, a format for control, a toll for comfort, a toll for control. How much do you currently owe?

[00:13:50] How much will you go after you graduate? Debt becomes an archive, a series of transactions, then promissory notes.

[00:14:00] There is no comfort in debt.

[00:14:03] When that takes control, there is a toll. Education is a privilege for the chosen few. Since my proposal was accepted, I have gained additional student loans. Once this festival is over the debt will increase.

[00:14:22] What I owe will continue to grow as time marches beyond this festival and my pending graduation, the agreement to pay up provides a one-sided peace of mind while the student is left with the burden to pay it all back.

[00:14:39] Equal rights now, reparations now, abolish the police, abolish prisons, no one is illegal, no more unfair labor practices. Health, housing, and education are human rights.

