---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: What_Happens_Next_Will_Be_Documented_by_Images_and_Text--Mirabelle_Jones.jpg
photo_credit: Mirabelle Jones
title: WHAT HAPPENS NEXT WILL BE DOCUMENTED BY IMAGES AND TEXT
first_performed: first performed on December 06, 2020
place: Artist's Home Studio During Lockdown
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: MIRABELLE JONES
collaborators: []
home: Copenhagen, Denmark
links:
- MirabelleJones.com
contact: mirabellejones@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 672-673
---


[Box] is from the series *What Happens Next Will Be Documented in Images and Text*, a set of endurance performances written by an artificial intelligence (GPT-3) and performed by a human being (Mirabelle Jones). Instructions for endurance performances were written using OpenAI's GPT-3, the largest natural language processing model in present-day existence, and then performed and recorded in the artist’s home studio during a COVID-19 lockdown period. GPT-3 uses machine learning to produce texts which are difficult to distinguish from human text. It was trained on the largest data set to-date including articles, books, blog entries, and texts sourced from the internet. As a result, GPT-3's words sometimes reflect the opinions of the internet and its human authors including biases, prejudices, and sometimes hateful output. This has added to existing concerns about artificial intelligence's increasing presence in our lives. The performances were generated in response to the prompt "An idea for an endurance performance artwork:". These performances touch upon the relationship between technology and the body, authorship and identity, and AI creativity vs. reproduction ultimately asking: what makes performance art human? What kinds of performance art might an AI generate? What can those performances tell us about ourselves and the impressions of "us" we immortalize online? You can view four of these performances: "I’ll Be Very Nervous", "[Box]", "Beans: Two Cans", "Endless Dance" online at MirabelleJones.com/GPT3. 

An idea for an endurance performance: 
"I want to make a performance where I try to do it while: - Moving a box without using my arms completely non stop for a long time (60 minutes for example) - Using my arms only a few times throughout a performance and at irregular intervals - Not using weight lifting gloves This is how I imagine it 1. Find a box to move, one that is light-weight 2. Set up a time limit for s performance (60 minutes). 3. Start moving the box 4. When there is a one minute left in the performance, stop it, pick up a banana and eat it, then continue moving a box for one more hour. 5. When there is 10mins left in the box moving workout, stop it, pick up a lemon and squeeze the juice from it, then continue for 10 more mins 6. When there is 5min left, meditate The point is to move i one continuous and slowly paced performance from start to finish non-stop."
