---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: Mother_without_a_child--Yelena_Myshko.jpg
photo_credit: Yelena Myshko
title: MOTHER WITHOUT A CHILD
first_performed: first performed on December 12, 2020
place: the artist's studio
times_performed: performed 1 in 2020
contributor: YELENA MYSHKO
collaborators: []
home: Zutphen, the Netherlands
links:
- www.yelenamyshko.com
contact: contact@yelenamyshko.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 676-677

---

In 2020, I was pregnant with my first child. My pregnancy was treated as normal, however I developed severe pre-eclampsia and lost my child at 31 weeks. The disease went unnoticed, despite reporting all symptoms, until I stopped feeling movement for two days. My daughter Feetje was stillborn on April 1st. I did not want to reflect on this experience as an artist until I came across An Artist Residency in Motherhood. It gave me the green light for action.

After my daughter’s death, I turned to sharing my story in the media. I found strength in seeking justice for my case against the health officials that did not intervene on time. It dawned on me that during my pregnancy everything around me was focused on money. I was swarmed with information about what to buy and heard nothing about what could go wrong. Even after my daughter’s cremation, I was stalked by ads for new moms, while I had no child to take care of. It seems that my daughter only mattered as long as she had commercial value. 

At some point my daughter’s death crossed an online argument about All Lives Matter. I posted a critique of a black republican on the movement and was called a racist among other things. Previously I was forced to censor some artworks that featured black body paint because it was presumed to be blackface. On both occasions I had to adhere to political correctness and abandon the idea of freedom of thought because it was against the status quo. This triggered an adverse reaction, instead of conforming to the criticism, I decided to walk on the sword’s edge. I understand that working with this topic is tricky because of the connection All Lives Matter has to the far right. I am however not interested to cause harm but call for a broader discussion about human rights.

My goal is to pull All Lives Matter out of context to introduce the under-discussed, taboo issue, of the right to be of the unborn child. It is also a reaction to people's insensitive remarks that uncover that my child does not matter because she was born sleeping. Furthermore, I call to include nature at large in all-lives-matter. This time I swap the black body paint for green, using the color to connect the dots.

