---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: _I_Too_Am_American_--Karen_Drewry.jpg
photo_credit: Karen Drewry
title: '"I TOO AM AMERICAN"'
first_performed: first performed on December 12, 2020
place: In front of local county sheriff's department;1500 Strongs Ave.
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: KAREN DREWRY
collaborators: []
home: Plover, WI
links: []
contact: kdrew422@uwsp.edu
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 680-681
---



“I Too Am American” is a performance that brings to light the importance of identity as a Black American in 2020.   We live in a society where racism for many is still alive and well; a society in which only “whiteness” is associated with America and conversely where America is inherently a white country in terms of culture, character, and structure.  This, in turn, forces most people of color to face boundaries and restrictions set by mainstream white people in America. Individuals not considered white in America are identified by their ethnicity and classified by the social construct of color:  yellow, red, brown or black. The so-called yellow man is classified as Asian American, the red man as Native American, the brown man as Pacific Islander, and the black man as African American.   However, white people, who come from a multitude of countries and diverse ethnic backgrounds (with or without American citizenship) are all classified by one color: white.
Due to all of the social unrest and injustice in the United States within 2020, the performance “I Too Am American” took place in front of my local sheriff’s building.  The performance begins with me wearing a white custom plaster mask that intricately highlights the form of my face as a black woman.  I use my hands to smear both brown and black paint on the mask completely altering the color.  After a considerable amount of paint is smeared on the mask, the color begins to resemble the likeness of my own skin.  The mask is then removed from my face and slowly reveals my actual face that had been hiding behind the now dark colored mask. Very intentionally, I slowly turn the mask around so the viewer can see the inside of the mask.  Inside the mask reveals an American flag that has been painted. By social and cultural constructs, I am classified by the color of my skin, but when it’s all said and done, I TOO AM AMERICAN.  

