---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: The_SEALS_Holiday_Special--The_SEALS.jpg
photo_credit: The SEALS
title: THE SEALS HOLIDAY SPECIAL
first_performed: first performed on December 12, 2020
place: NYU First Performance Series on Zoom
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: THE SEALS
collaborators:
- Sofy Yuditskaya
- " Ria Rajan"
- " Sophia Sun"
- " Susie Green"
- " Margaret Schedel"
home: We are located in Brooklyn, NY, Setauket,  NY, Miami, FL, San Diego, CA, and
  Pune, India.
links:
- vimeo.com/495691434
contact: lesphoques2020@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 698-699
---





We’re a political, feminist, noise and AI-inspired, electronic sorta-surf rock band composed of women and AIs that assist in creating usable content; from which we mold our music & visuals. We begin by invoking one another through zoom and play skull theremins while reading GPT2 & GPT3 (Machine Learning) generated dialogue.


In our own words we:


Margaret: We created an experience that transcends academic contexts, with a more punk aesthetic with a real beat. The performance swerved between the avant-garde and a Bond-theme song for a movie set in the ocean of the future. To increase our telepresence we each had an identical golden rotten luck die, rolled to determine performance techniques including short barks, tonal honks, grunts, growls, roars, moans, and pup contact calls.


Sophia: Our performance was a sonic, visual, and experiential net, capturing aspects of our collective consciousness (and subconsciousness) regarding the 2020 experience. Music making mediated by algorithms and network errors, conversations interrupted by Zoom, visuals glitched by our devices - we were isolated yet connected, cyborg yet symbiotic, together making noise in an elevated reality.


Susie: Our program began before it began, an amalgamation & transmutation of assets offered by the S.E.A.L. We five, through shared words, golden dice & a prism of frequency, invoked one another to activate a portal of boxes within boxes. We were observed & connected across lay/latency lines, stitching a tapestry of sight & sound...for 35 minutes life was less lonely for this ghost in the machine.


Ria: Using live feeds found on the interwebs of sea creatures and ocean beds, I created our visual landscapes and colourfields, processed through layers of algorithmic manipulations. Our futuristic virtual performance came together seamlessly as a sum of parts worked on remotely, collectively and independently; reflecting the fractured consciousness of 2020’s lockdown online life, for humans observing oceans and each other alike.


Sofy: We summoned each other through cyberspace and began invoking the spirit of the seals by reciting the words provided by the GPT3, then improvised over our own music that we previously put together, asynchronously sending files and sounds to each other through the interwebs. Our improvisation was asynchronous too; being in different timezones with zoom lags, no single stream of the performance was common for any viewer/performer, beautifully isolated experiences in this interconnected world. We’ll never know exactly what anyone experienced in their own Covid bubble.
