---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: She_Will_Come_on_Her_Own___Entering_the_Virtual--Lilach_Orenstein.jpg
photo_credit: Lilach Orenstein
title: SHE WILL COME ON HER OWN - ENTERING THE VIRTUAL
first_performed: first performed on December 12, 2020
place: The Center at West Park
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: LILACH ORENSTEIN
collaborators:
- Jhelan Gordon-Salaam and Evan Anderson.
home: New York, NY/ Philadelphia, PA/ New Haven, CT
links:
- www.lilach.art
contact: 91lilach.oren@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 700-701
---



Because of a lack in diverse perspectives, and a sense of perspectives superiority, women are objectified. Four years ago, I experienced sexual assault. This triggered my realization, that it does not matter how you are, people will choose to see you the way they want to. As sex is the ultimate goal of our primitives selves and we inherently look for it and see it everywhere, I decided to take inspiration from the sex positions in the Karma Sutra to get audiences past their inhibitions and be truly focused on practicing perspectives multiplicity.

“She Will Come on Her Own – Entering the Virtual” began on Zoom, where the audience was provided six links, each to a unique perspective of the performance taken by my colleagues. The various captions streamed live on YouTube, simultaneously, and the audience was encouraged to swap between the different links and see the happenings from more than one point of view. You were given the opportunity to diversify the way you look at the performance and broaden the traditional way we’ve learned to consume works of art.

In order to comply with the strict health safety guidelines during COVID-19, I invited separately each of my colleagues to caption the performance from their perspectives, as they please. This gave an additional element, as they did not affect one another and were able to stay true and explore while filming to their heart’s content. The performative installation takes place in the 136 years old, Presbyterian Church, located on the Upper West Side in NYC. The performance begins at the center of the two main aisles on top of a small black platform, where two women are exploring the creation of intimacy through embodying the construction and deconstruction of sex positions to the aria of “Stabat Mater”.

As the aria ends, repetitive actions transform the movement while the performers explore the boundaries of proximity and touch as new performative ideas are introduced, revealing different views of the performers’ intentions and motivations. The space unfolds with the performance progression as more details of the church are exposed by the soft light transfiguration, the sounds perturbation and movement materials development, in perfect sync. The performance progress from the church entrance through the main carpet and up to the stage and ends at the pulpit, right beneath the lit tiffany glass of Jesus, blessing the passersby.
