---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: Left___In_The_Dunes--Kellen_Stanley.jpg
photo_credit: Patrick Ellis
title: LEFT / IN THE DUNES
first_performed: first performed on December 12, 2020
place: 'White Sands National Park '
times_performed: performed 1 in 2020
contributor: KELLEN STANLEY
collaborators: []
home: San Antonio, TX
links:
- http://kellenstanley.com
contact: kellenstanley@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 718-719

---

Edited, Cropped, Re-arranged Sequence of What Happened at White Sands: 

Walk on sand barefoot, cold
High desert winter
Near the site where atoms once split apart molecular bonds.
Scent in liquid form is applied to hands, bare and exposed to biting wind.
Hands rub together then inhaled 
as if in a moment of prayer.
A foothold is found, 
then: shoes and garments like a scarf, felt hat, tights, gloves.

Originally this is a score about costume, color, and texture. White dress, ivory sand; slowly enter red fleece and warmth. This, plus movement excluded in the final cut, was the choreography I had planned before we arrived to the location. A shot list was organized. I taught my partner / newly-minted director of photography what I meant by wide shot and extreme close up. We drove. We arrived. My partner steadied the camera and watched me do my thing, respecting that these movements were an impulse I needed to scratch. It was an act of recognition, of witnessing-- each other, within myself, and with healed scars the original choreography referred to. The unplanned encounters (the surrealist beauty, our dog off-camera digging holes and having her best day ever, a mutual feeling of liberation) became the uncaptured essence of this culminating moment. I can only describe the in-between moments which informed the performative repetitions. The lavender in the sky following the sparkling glitter of sand particles reflected from the setting sun. The genuine joy felt. These observations couldn’t be documented with a lens. 

Weeks later, what struck me while watching the video playback was the subtle movement of rubbing my hands together to warm my palms in the dunes. I do this small, tactile repetition every time I apply scented oil to my skin. Golden jojoba the color of straw carried eucalyptus, clove, Texas cedar, and a few other essential oils supposedly useful to combat germs. It was a risk to travel and do this performance / spiritual pilgrimage. Pandemic-era Trump’s America. Insert one-of-a-kind perfume I made only for my hands. Drop a dram in the left palm. Rub (vigorously, calmly). Inhale.

I plan to develop parts of this performance captured with video into another artwork… but the thing that happened in the dunes was its own thing. It was performed for me, my love, our dog, a far-away audience of socially-distanced strangers probably not paying attention, and a setting desert sun.

