---
layout: project
volume: 2020
image: bahurupi.jpg
photo_credit: SELF
title: BAHURUPI
first_performed: first performed on November 11, 2021
place: HOME
times_performed: performed once in 2020
contributor: JHUMA KUNDU
collaborators:
- AYAN MUKHERJEE
- " CURATOR."
home: INDIA, KOLKATA
links:
- http://Behance.net/jhumakundu
contact: jhumakundu003@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags: []
pages: 728-729
---



                                                           BAHURUPI

Impersonator or in laymen's language - Bahurupiya, was an old form of Performance Art in which men & women used to portray themselves like Gods or Goddesses. They used to wear costumes & make up like God and used to present themselves in public places to earn their living. This art form was a source of living for these poor artists from rural Bengal and also had its own religious significance among common man.

The aim of my Performance Art is to establish a connection between a rural Bahurupiya with an Urban, Pandemic hit common man.

As a matter of fact, we know that a Face mask has become an undetachable part of our body in present scenario of COVID-19. Every human has his/ her own individuality but by covering our faces with a mask, somehow all of us have become Bahurupiya. Our real identities, our faces are hidden behind the mask which we wear. As per medical recommendations, we keep changing our masks on daily basis which changes our appearance too. It can only be called a circle of life where a child, who was entertained by Bahurupiya a decade back or two has himself become a COVID hit symbolic Bahurupiya. Evidently, the old Performance Art of Bahurupiya has become the widely noticed identity of common man in Urban jungles and will continue to be till the situation normalises.
